**Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio Predicts Severe Illness Patients with
2019 Novel Coronavirus in the Early Stage**

**KEYWORDS: severe disease; pneumonia; lymphocytes; neutrophils; **

**SUMMARY:** This study aimed to find prognostic biomarkers of COVID-19
pneumonia severity. Sixty-one (61) patients with COVID-19 treated in
January at a hospital in Beijing, China were included. On average,
patients were seen within 5 days from illness onset. Samples were
collected on admission; and then patients were monitored for the
development of severe illness with a median follow-up of 10 days\].

Patients were grouped as “mild” (N=44) or “moderate/severe” (N=17)
according to symptoms on admission and compared for different
clinical/laboratory features. “Moderate/severe” patients were
significantly older (median of 56 years old, compared to 41 years old).
Whereas comorbidies rates were largely similar between the groups,
except for hypertension, which was more frequent in the severe group (p=
0.056). ‘Severe’ patients had higher counts of neutrophils, and serum
glucose levels; but lower lymphocyte counts, sodium and serum chlorine
levels. The ratio of neutrophils to lymphocytes (NLR) was also higher
for the ‘severe’ group. ‘Severe’ patients had a higher rate of bacterial
infections (and antibiotic treatment) and received more intensive
respiratory support and treatment.

26 clinical/laboratory variables were used to select NLR and age as the
best predictors of the severe disease. Predictive cutoffs for a severe
illness as NLR ≥ 3.13 or age ≥ 50 years.

**LIMITATIONS:** Identification of early biomarkers is important for
making clinical decisions, but large sample size and validation cohorts
are necessary to confirm findings. It is worth noting that patients
classified as “mild” showed pneumonia by imaging and fever, and in
accordance with current classifications this would be consistent with
“moderate” cases. Hence it would be more appropriate to refer to the
groups as “moderate” vs “severe/critical”. Furthermore, there are
several limitations that could impact the interpretation of the results:
e.g. classification of patients was based on symptoms presented on
admission and not based on disease progression, small sample size,
especially the number of ‘severe’ cases (with no deaths among these
patients). Given the small sample size, the proposed NLR and age cut
offs might not hold for a slightly different set of patients. For
example, in a study of &gt;400 patients, ‘non-severe’ and ‘severe’ NLR
were 3.2 and 5.5, respectively ^1^.

References:

1.  Chuan Qin, MD, PhD, Luoqi Zhou, MD, Ziwei Hu, MD, Shuoqi Zhang, MD,
    PhD, Sheng Yang, MD, Yu Tao, MD, PhD, Cuihong Xie, MD, PhD, Ke Ma,
    MD, PhD, Ke Shang, MD, PhD, Wei Wang, MD, PhD, Dai-Shi Tian, MD,
    PhD, Dysregulation of immune response in patients with COVID-19 in
    Wuhan, China, *Clinical Infectious Diseases*, ,
    ciaa248, <https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciaa248>

This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.
