The Pathogenicity of 2019 Novel Coronavirus in hACE2 Transgenic Mice

**doi:** https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.07.939389

Linlin Bao, Wei Deng, Baoying Huang, Hong Gao, Lili Ren, Qiang Wei, Pin Yu, Yanfeng Xu, Jiangning Liu, Feifei Qi, Yajin Qu, Wenling Wang, Fengdi Li, Qi Lv, Jing Xue, Shuran Gong, Mingya Liu, Guanpeng Wang, Shunyi Wang, Linna Zhao, Peipei Liu, Li Zhao, Fei Ye, Huijuan Wang, Weimin Zhou, Na Zhu, Wei Zhen, Xiaojuan Zhang, Zhiqi Song, Li Guo, Lan Chen, Conghui Wang, Ying Wang, Xinming Wang, Yan Xiao, Qiangming Sun, Hongqi Liu, Fanli Zhu, Chunxia Ma, Lingmei Yan, Mengli Yang, Jun Han, Wenbo Xu, Wenjie Tan, Xiaozhong Peng, Qi Jin, Guizhen Wu, Chuan Qin

Keywords: Covid-19 mouse model, hACE2 mice, 2019-nCoV model, ACE2
2019-nCoV 

Summary: Using a transgenic human Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2
(hACE2) mouse that has previously been shown susceptible to infection by
SARS-CoV, Bao et al. create a model of pandemic 2019-nCoV strain
coronavirus. The model includes interstitial hyperplasia in lung tissue,
moderate inflammation in bronchioles and blood vessels, and histology
consistent with viral pneumonia at 3 days post infection. Wildtype did
not experience these symptoms. In addition, viral antigen and hACE2
receptor were found to co-localize the lung by immunofluorescence 3-10
days post infection only in the hACE2 infected mice.

Limitations: The characterization of the infection remains incomplete,
as well as lacking characterization of the immune response other than
the presence of a single antiviral antibody. Though they claim to
fulfill Koch’s postulates, they only isolate the virus and re-infect
Vero cells, rather than naive mice.

Significance: This paper establishes a murine model for 2019-nCoV
infection with symptoms consistent with viral pneumonia. Though not
fully characterized, this model allows in vivo analysis of viral entry
and pathology that is important for the development of vaccines and
antiviral therapeutics.

Review by Dan Fu Ruan, Evan Cody and Venu Pothula
