A.  Elevated serum IgM levels indicate poor outcome in patients with
    coronavirus disease 2019 pneumonia: A retrospective case-control
    study

B.  **Keywords:** SAR-CoV-2, pneumonia, immunoglobulin, IgM, IgG.

C.  **Key findings:** The authors wanted to better understand the
    dynamics of production SARS-CoV-2-specific IgM and IgG in COVID-19
    pneumonia and the correlation of virus-specific antibody levels to
    disease outcome in a case-control study paired by age. The
    retrospective study included 116 hospitalized patients with COVID-19
    pneumonia and with SAR-CoV-2 specific serum IgM and IgG detected.
    From the study cohort, 15 cases died. SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG levels
    increased over 8 weeks after onset of COVID-19 pneumonia, while
    SARS-CoV-2 specific IgM levels peaked at 4 weeks. SARS-CoV-2
    specific IgM levels were higher in the deceased group, and
    correlated positively with the IgG levels and increased leucocyte
    count in this group, a indication of severe inflammation. IgM levels
    correlated negatively with clinical outcome and with albumin levels.
    The authors suggest that IgM levels could be assessed to predict
    clinical outcome.

D.  **Potential limitations:** There are limitations that should be
    taken into account. First, the sample: small size, patients from a
    single-center and already critically ill when they were admitted.
    Second, the authors compared serum IgM levels in deceased patients
    and mild-moderate patients and found that the levels were higher in
    deceased group, however even if the difference is statistically
    significant the number of patients in the two groups was very
    different. Moreover, receiving operating characteristics (ROC)
    curves were used to evaluate IgM and IgG as potential predictors for
    clinical outcome. Given the low number of cases, especially in the
    deceased group, it remains to be confirmed if IgM levels could be
    predictive of worst outcome in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia. The
    study did not explore the role of SARS-CoV-2-specific IgM and IgG in
    COVID-19 pneumonia.

E.  **Overall relevance for the field:** Some results of this study have
    been supported by subsequent studies that show that older age and
    patients who have comorbidities are more likely to develop a more
    severe clinical course with COVID-19, and severe SARS-CoV-2 may
    trigger an exaggerated immune response. The study seems to
    demonstrate that the increase of SARS-CoV-2-specific IgM could
    indicate poor outcome in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia, however
    given the very small sample size, the results are not yet
    conclusive.

Review by Meriem Belabed as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.
