### Deep immune profiling of COVID-19 patients reveals patient heterogeneity and distinct immunotypes with implications for therapeutic interventions

Mathew D et al. *bioRxiv* \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.05.20.106401\]

#### Keywords

-   COVID-19

-   Lymphocytes

-   plasmablasts

-   Profiling

-   cytometry

#### Main Findings

-   Study profiled immune dysregulation in peripheral blood of COVID-19
    patients (n=71) along with recovered donors (RD; n=25) and healthy
    subjects (HD; n=37) using high dimensional cytometry. Integrated
    correlation mapping of clinical features (CRP/Ferritin etc) with
    immune phenotype was carried out, and findings in specific cellular
    compartments were parsed against pre-existing conditions or
    treatment modalities.

-   CD8 T cell profiling indicated an increase in effector memory 2
    (EM2) CD45RA- CD27- CCR7+, and CD45RA+ effector memory (EMRA)
    CD45RA+ CD27- CCR7- CD8 T cell populations as well as increased
    frequencies of PD1+ CD39+ non-naïve T cells in \~2/3^rd^ of COVID-19
    patients compared to HD. This was associated with higher
    proliferation and HLA-DR, CD38 expression. FlowSOM clustering
    indicated similarly that \~60% subset of COVID-19 patients had
    increased TEMRA-like and activated CD8 T cell populations, while the
    CD45RA-CCR7+ central memory (CM)-like clusters were decreased
    compared to HD.

-   Most major CD8 T cell populations in RDs were comparable to HDs but
    non-naïve CD8+ T cells in RD expressed higher PD1. High-dimensional
    tSNE mapping indicated subtle differences in CX3CR1 and Tbet
    expression.

-   CD4 T cell analyses indicated similar increases in EM2/3 and EMRA
    populations, but no major changes in cTfh cells in COVID-19 patient
    blood when compared to controls. FlowSOM analyses showed decreases
    in CD45RA+CCR7+ naïve CD4 T cells but also cTfh-like cells in
    another subset of COVID-19 patients. In a subgroup of COVID-19
    patients and most RD patients, activated cTfh were increased
    suggesting ongoing or residual germinal center interactions and
    links to humoral immunity.

-   Luminex assays of plasma and paired stimulated-PBMC supernatant
    showed a subset of COVID-19 patients to have higher CXCL9, CXCL10,
    CCL2 and ILRA compared to HD. Eosinophil or T cell chemokines such
    as Eotaxin and CCL5 were decreased in COVID-19 plasma.

-   A subset of COVID-19 patients (\~2/3) had lower class-switched
    (IgD-) and non-class-switched (IgD+) memory B cells, increased
    frequencies of CD27+CD38+ plasmablasts, and higher proliferation in
    certain memory B cell subsets. There was no clear association
    between increased plasmablast frequency and cTfh activation status.
    Here, COVID-19 subjects segregated into 2 groups: one with high
    plasmablast responses and low CD4 activation, and a second with
    lower plasmablasts and higher CD4 T cell activation. Clustering
    COVID-19 patients according to global B cell response resulted
    majorly in 2 distinct EMD clusters (matching aforementioned
    categories), and the remainder 30% clustered with HD/RD controls.

-   Study observed stable tSNE distributions of immune response (CD8,
    CD4 and B cell differentiation) over days of hospitalization, but
    subpopulation analyses indicated a sustained CD8 T cell
    proliferative response (not CD4, nor plasmablasts) in COVID-19
    patients over 7 days in clinic. Using a previously-described dataset
    to define typical HD-like stability and then mapping variation over
    time, the study additionally showed \~60% of patients had increases
    in HLA-DR+CD38+ non-naive CD4 T cells temporally, and \~42% patients
    displayed sustained plasmablast responses.

-   Data clustering based on immune features overlaid with disease
    severity score over time revealed “immunotype” groups with similar
    composite signatures, and an UMAP-based meta-analysis showed
    ‘stepwise’ increase in principal features with progressive disease.
    These computational approaches underlined 3 archetypes of COVID-19
    patients – an immunotype 1, comprised of CD4 T cell
    activation/proliferation and Tbet+ plasmablasts and linked to
    disease severity , an immunotype 2 of CD8 T cell EM/EMRA activation
    and CD138+ki67+ plasmablasts, and finally an immunotype 3 with
    undetectable T/B cell responses which may represent \~30% of COVID19
    patients.

#### Limitations

-   Whether all of the observed changes in the T and B cell compartment,
    including potential germinal center responses, are due to SARS-COV-2
    directed responses is unclear and could be verified using either
    COV-2-tetramers, COV-2-specific ELISAs, or TCR/BCR sequencing
    analyses. Associative studies of changes in myeloid compartment
    would also be extremely valuable here.

-   It should be noted that the COVID-19 cohort included various
    pre-existing comorbidities, as well as different treatments with
    HCQ, steroids or remdesivir. Care was taken to parse many of these
    variables, but readers should not interpret interventional efficacy
    from this data.

-   As stated by the authors, the model used to define ‘immunotypes’ may
    benefit from adding additional immune features, such as
    comprehensive serum cytokine measurements as well as viral titers.
    Additionally, information on how/if these immunotypes associate with
    specific COVID-19 symptoms and complications (eg- endothelial
    dysfunction or myeloid activation) might be enlightening.

#### Significance

-   This study presents extensive longitudinal profiling of T and B cell
    compartments in COVID-19 patients and convalescent donors, as well
    as provide useful correlation-frameworks for defining ‘immunotypes’
    or ‘immune trajectory archetypes’ in this disease. Basically,
    COVID-19 manifests in many different ways immunologically.

-   Importantly, this study demonstrates some patients displayed
    dramatic changes in T cell or B cell activation over 1 week in the
    hospital, but there were also other patients who remained stable
    lymphocyte-wise. A deeper dive into characteristics of these
    ‘lympho-stable’ COVID-19 patients would be critical, especially in
    terms of the myeloid cell correlates and differential inflammatory
    cascades.

-   There was no clear link between plasmablast responses and follicular
    CD4 T cell dynamics, suggesting there might not be extensive T
    cell-dependent humoral immunity in COVID-19. However, more
    carefully-controlled studies honing on this question are needed to
    comprehensively resolve this.

-   Some ‘lympho-stable’ COVID-19 patients have high and ever-increasing
    CD8, CD4 T proliferation response, potentially as an emergency
    mechanism to keep numbers up amidst lymphopenia. The observed
    activation in almost all non-naïve CD8 subtypes suggests potential
    bystander activation and/or emergency proliferation globally in
    addition to the antigen-driven activation of SARS-COV-2-specific CD8
    T cells.

-   The durable lymphocytic response in COVID-19 contrasts with the
    short transient peak characteristic of other viral infections
    (influenza, HIV, yellow fever etc). This incessant T cell
    proliferation in COVID-19 might give rise to anergy/exhaustion, and
    might be linked to the delayed Type I/III IFN dynamics in SARS-COV
    and also SARS-COV-2. Hence, analyzing the temporal pattern of
    COVID-19 remains critical.

*Reviewed by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
