### Exuberant elevation of IP-10, MCP-3 and IL-1ra during SARS-CoV-2 infection is associated with disease severity and fatal outcome

Yang et al. *medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.02.20029975]

#### Keywords

- cytokine
- IP-10
- MCP-3
- IL-1Ra
- lymphocyte
- neutrophil
- stratification
- disease severity
- viral load
- lung function
- complications
- clinical data

#### Summary

Plasma cytokine analysis (48 cytokines) was
performed on COVID-19 patient plasma samples, who were sub-stratified as
severe (N=34), moderate (N=19), and compared to healthy controls (N=8).
Patients were monitored for up to 24 days after illness onset: viral
load (qRT-PCR), cytokine (multiplex on subset of patients), lab tests,
and epidemiological/clinical characteristics of patients were reported.



#### Main Findings

-   Many elevated cytokines with COVID-19 onset compared to healthy
    controls (IFNy, IL-1Ra, IL-2Ra, IL-6, IL-10, IL-18, HGF, MCP-3, MIG,
    M-CSF, G-CSF, MIG-1a, and IP-10).

-   IP-10, IL-1Ra, and MCP-3 (esp. together) were associated with
    disease severity and fatal outcome.

-   IP-10 was correlated to patient viral load (r=0.3006, p=0.0075).

-   IP-10, IL-1Ra, and MCP-3 were correlated to loss of lung function
    (PaO~2~/FaO~2~ (arterial/atmospheric O2) and Murray Score (lung
    injury) with MCP-3 being the most correlated (r=0.4104 p&lt;0.0001
    and r=0.5107 p&lt;0.0001 respectively).

-   Viral load (Lower Ct Value from qRT-PCR) was associated with
    upregulated IP-10 only (not IL-1Ra or MCP-3) and was mildly
    correlated with decreased lung function: PaO~2~/FaO~2~
    (arterial/atmospheric O2) and Murray Score (lung injury).

-   Lymphopenia (decreased CD4 and CD8 T cells) and increased neutrophil
    correlated w/ severe patients.

-   Complications were associated with COVID severity (ARDS, hepatic
    insufficiency, renal insufficiency).

#### Limitations

Collection time of clinical data and lab results
not reported directly (likely 4 days (2,6) after illness onset), making
it very difficult to determine if cytokines were predictive of patient
outcome or reflective of patient compensatory immune response (likely
the latter). Small N for cytokine analysis (N=2 fatal and N=5
severe/critical, and N=7 moderate or discharged). Viral treatment
strategy not clearly outlined.

#### Expanded Results

*NOTE*: Moderate COVID-19 was classified by fever, respiratory
manifestations, and radiological findings consistent with pneumonia
while severe patients had one or more of the following: 1) respiratory
distraction, resting O2 saturation, or 3) arterial PaO2/FiO2 *&lt;* 300
mmHg.

Cytokine Results (Human Cytokine Screening Panel, Bio-Rad):

-   **Significant elevation of cytokines observed in COVID patients
    compared to healthy controls: IFNy, IL-1Ra, IL-2Ra, IL-6, IL-10,
    IL-18, HGF, MCP-3, MIG, M-CSF, G-CSF, MIG-1a, and IP-10.**

-   Severity was correlated **with increase in measured IP-10, MCP-3,
    and IL-Ra** as measure by area under the curve analysis during
    sample timecourse (2-24 days after illness onset).

-   IL-1Ra incr. significant 0-7 days after onset, MCP-3 signif.
    upregulated throughout observation timecourse, and IP-10 increased
    and upregulated throughout (trending downwards over time).

-   **The three cytokines together (IP-10, IL-1Ra, and MCP-3 AUC) served
    as the best predictors of disease deterioration and fatal outcome.**

-   No significant differences between moderate/severe observed between
    groups in IL-2Ra, IL-6, IL-10, IL-18, CTACK, G-CSF, HGF, M-CSF,
    MIP-1a, MIG, and IFNy at any timepoints.

-   **Viral load (Lower Ct Value from qRT-PCR) was associated with
    upregulated IP-10 only (not IL-1Ra or MCP-3) and was highly
    correlated with decreased lung function: PaO~2~/FaO~2~
    (arterial/atmospheric O2) and Murray Score (lung injury).**

-   **Antibodies against these cytokines (esp. anti-IP-10) may serve as
    a potential treatment for amelioration of COVID-19 (and associated
    ARDS).**

Lab results:

-   **Decreased lymphocytes (%) in all patients – lymphopenia corr. w/
    severe patients**

    -   **Decreased CD4 and CD8 T cells** – no monocyte or
        eosino/basophil % measured

-   **Increased neutrophils (%)**

-   Increased BUN (mmol/L) – other kidney markers, liver markers, and
    LDH were not significantly different between groups and were not
    compared to healthy controls.

Clinical features (between moderate vs. severe patient groups):

-   **Complications were associated with severity (ARDS, hepatic
    insufficiency, renal insufficiency).**

-   Coexisting conditions between groups were not significantly
    different (chronic heart/lung/renal/liver disease, diabetes, or
    cancer) and patient time courses (onset to admission and onset to
    viral tx) also not significantly different – 4 days (2, 6) on
    average for admission and 4 (3,7) for antiviral.

-   Increased corticosteroids and mechanical/ invasive mechanical
    ventilation in severe patients.

-   Increased median age in severe group (Median (Range = 63.5 (42-74)
    vs. 51 (22-78)) and patients *&gt;* 60 yrs had higher ratio of
    severe patients as compared patients 16-59 yrs.

-   Higher incidence of fever is severe patients (91.2 vs. 68.4%),
    myalgia (57.7 vs. 48.1%), and chill (17.6% vs. 0%).

-   No differences in cough, headache, nausea/vomiting, or diarrhea.

#### Significance

Outline of pathological time course (implicating innate
immunity esp.) and identification key cytokines associated with disease
severity and prognosis (+ comorbidities). Anti-IP-10 as a possible
therapeutic intervention (ex: Eldelumab).

#### Credit

*Review by Natalie Vaninov as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
