**Title: **

**SARS-CoV-2 proteome microarray for mapping COVID-19 antibody
interactions at amino acid resolution**

**Immunology keywords:** SARS-CoV-2, COVID-19, high throughput, peptide
microarray, antibody epitope screening

**The main finding of the article: **

This study screened the viral protein epitopes recognized by antibodies
in the serum of 10 COVID-19 patients using a new SARS-CoV-2 proteome
peptide microarray. The peptide library was constructed with 966 linear
peptides, each 15 amino acids long with a 5 amino acid overlap, based on
the protein sequences encoded by the genome of the Wuhan-Hu-1 strain.

To investigate crossreactivity between SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2, they
tested rabbit monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against SARS-CoV-1
nucleocapsid (N) in the microarray. Antibodies against SARS-CoV-1 N
displayed binding to the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) peptides.
Polyclonal antibodies showed some crossreactivity to other epitopes from
membrane (M), spike (S), ORF1ab and ORF8. This suggests that previous
exposure to SARS-CoV-1 may induced antibodies recognizing both viruses.

Screening of IgM and IgG antibodies from 10 COVID-19 patients showed
that many antibodies targeted peptides on M, N, S, Orf1ab, Orf3a, Orf7a,
and Orf8 from SARS-CoV-2, while immunodominant epitopes with antibodies
in more than 80 % COVID-19 patients were present in N, S and Orf3. It is
shown that the receptor binding domain (RBD) resides on S protein and
RBD is important for SARS-CoV-2 to enter the host cells via ACE2. Among
six epitopes on S protein, structural analysis predicted that three
epitopes were located at the surface and three epitopes were located
inside of the protein. Furthermore, some IgM antibodies from 1 patient
and IgG antibodies from 2 patients bound to the same epitope (residue
456-460, FRKSN) which resided within the RBD, and structural analysis
determined that this epitope was located in the region of the RBD loop
that engages with ACE2.

**Critical analysis of the study:**

In addition to the limitations mentioned in the manuscript, it would
have been informative to do the analysis over the course of the disease.
The pattern of antibody recognition, especially on S protein, and the
course of antibodies of different isotypes recognizing the same peptide
might correlate to the clinical course in these patients. It would also
have been informative to analyze the presence of cross-reactive
antibodies from patients previously exposed to SARS-CoV-1.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics:**

This study identified linear immunodominant epitopes on SARS-CoV-2,
Wuhan-Hu-1 strain. This is a valuable information to design vaccines
that will elicit desirable immune responses.
