### Cross-reactive antibody response between SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV infection.

Lv et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.15.993097]

#### Keywords

SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV, spike protein, RBD, cross-reactivity,
cross-neutralization, antibody, human patients, mouse

#### Main Findings

The authors explore the antigenic differences between SARS-CoV-2 and
SARS-CoV by analyzing plasma samples from SARS-CoV-2 (n = 15) and
SARS-CoV (n = 7) patients. Cross-reactivity in antibody binding to the
spike protein between SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV was found to be common,
mostly targeting non-RBD regions in plasma from SARS-CoV-2 patients.
Only one SARS-CoV-2 plasma sample was able to cross-neutralize SARS-CoV,
with low neutralization activity. No cross-neutralization response was
detected in plasma from SARS-CoV patients.

To further investigate the cross-reactivity of antibody responses to
SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV, the authors analyzed the antibody response of
plasma collected from mice infected or immunized with SARS-CoV-2 or
SARS-CoV (n = 5 or 6 per group). Plasma from mice immunized with
SARS-CoV-2 displayed cross-reactive responses to SARS-CoV S ectodomain
and, to a lesser extent, SARS-CoV RBD. Similarly, plasma from mice
immunized with SARS-CoV displayed cross-reactive responses to SARS-CoV-2
S ectodomain. Cross-neutralization activity was not detected in any of
the mouse plasma samples.

#### Limitations

The size of each patient cohort is insufficient to accurately determine
the frequency of cross-reactivity and cross-neutralization in the
current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Recruitment of additional patients from a
larger range of geographical regions and time points would also enable
exploration into the effect of the genetic diversity and evolution of
the SARS-CoV-2 virus on cross-reactivity. This work would also benefit
from the mapping of specific epitopes for each sample. Future studies
may determine whether the non-neutralizing antibody responses can confer
*in vitro* protection or lead to antibody-dependent disease enhancement.

#### Significance

The cross-reactive antibody responses to S protein in the majority of
SARS-CoV-2 patients is an important consideration for development of
serological assays and vaccine development during the current outbreak.
The limited extent of cross-neutralization demonstrated in this study
indicates that vaccinating to cross-reactive conserved epitopes may have
limited efficacy, presenting a key concern for the development of a more
universal coronavirus vaccine to address the global health risk of novel
coronavirus outbreaks.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
