### Prediction of SARS-CoV-2 epitopes across 9360 HLA class I alleles 

Campbell et al. *bioRxiv* \[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.30.016931\]

#### Keywords

-   MHC class I

-   HLA

-   Haplotype

-   CD8+ T cells

-   CTL

-   SARS-CoV-2 peptidome

#### Main Findings

In this study, Campbell et al. investigate the immunogenic potential of
SARS-CoV-2-derived epitopes in the context of eliciting CD-8 T cell
responses. Using pVAC, a computational toolkit developed by the Parker
Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy to predict cancer neoantigens
presented by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I, they analyzed the
binding affinity of 9360 HLA-I alleles to 9-mer epitopes derived from
all 11 viral proteins spanning the SARS-CoV-2 proteome. They identified
6,748 epitope – HLA-I pairs, which consisted of 1,103 unique 9-mer
epitopes and 1,022 HLA class I alleles, with a predicted binding
affinity Kd &lt; 500 nM. Each viral protein was predicted to generate
immunogenic epitopes (12 to 684 epitopes, with a median of 31) and some
of these epitopes could bind to multiple HLA-I alleles (1 to 55 alleles,
with a median of 3). The study tested 2987 HLA-A, 3707 HLA-B and 2666
HLA-C alleles, of which majority of viral epitopes were predicted to
bind HLA-B alleles (295 HLA-A, 614 HLA-B and 113 HLA-C). Of note, 10 of
the 30 experimentally validated immunogenic SARS-CoV HLA-I epitopes were
identified among current SARS-CoV-2 predicted epitopes. Together, this
work shows that a diverse set of HLA alleles can potentially bind to a
wide variety of viral peptides, suggesting the presence of strong
cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses against SARS-CoV-2 in COVID-19 patients
and serves as a valuable resource for SARS-CoV-2 epitope selection and
experimental validation efforts, which would guide the design of T-cell
based vaccination strategies against COVID-19.[]{#limitations .anchor}

#### Significance

A limitation of this study is that it identifies only 9-mers peptides
with &lt;500 nM binding affinity, but it does not look for 8-mer or
10-mer peptides and excludes peptides with &gt;500 nM affinity but
within statistical rank-cutoff of 2%, which could still generate an
immune response to the virus. Another limitation is that the authors did
not evaluate epitope - HLA-II pairs, even though HLA class II is also
important in the context of viral immune responses. Studies have shown
that convalescent sera of recovered COVID-19 patients contain
neutralizing antibodies, which can be used as an early treatment for
recipient patients or as a prophylactic for at-risk or exposed patients.
Generation of these antibodies require viral detection by B cells, aided
by antigen presentation by HLA II molecules to CD4 T cells, which
stimulates B cells to differentiate into antibody-producing plasma
cells. Thus, further study could provide insight into the ability to
potentially initiate potent antibody responses by identifying longer
peptides and their affinity for class II variants.

#### Significance

#### This study predicts 6,748 unique pMHC complexes across the SARS-CoV-2 peptidome and global variety of HLA alleles, highlighting that a wide variety of patients can generate a CTL-mediated response to infection. These results can help explain the heterogeneity of COVID-19 disease phenotypes and can be used to monitor CD8+ T cell responses across patients with many different haplotypes. Since SARS-CoV-2 proteome is quite large to be screened experimentally for immunogenic epitopes in an unbiased fashion, these in silico findings guide the selection of immunogenic epitopes for functional validation of SARS-CoV-2 epitopes, which can be used in vaccine development and pre-clinical treatment studies. Moreover, all data generated in this study is publicly available for further investigation, which is critical for clinical translation in the evolving pandemic. 

#### Credit

*Reviewed *by Miriam Saffern* as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
