### Identification of antiviral drug candidates against SARS-CoV-2 from FDA-approved drugs

Sangeun Jeon et al. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.20.999730]

#### Keywords

- COVID-19
- SARS CoV-2
- antiviral drugs
- niclosamide
- ciclesonide

#### Main Findings

A panel of \~3,000 FDA- and IND-approved
antiviral drugs were previously screened for inhibitory efficacy against
SARS CoV, a coronavirus related to the novel coronavirus SARS CoV-2
(79.5%) homology. 35 of these drugs along with another 15 (suggested by
infectious disease specialists) were tested in vitro for their ability
to inhibit SARS CoV-2 infectivity of Vero cells while preserving cell
viability. The infected cells were scored by immunofluorescence analysis
using an antibody against the N protein of SARS CoV-2. Chloroquine,
lopinavir and remdesivir were used as reference drugs.

Twenty four out of 50 drugs exhibited antiviral activity with IC50
values ranging from 0.1-10µM. Among these, two stood ou: 1) the-anti
helminthic drug niclosamide which exhibited potent antiviral activity
against SARS CoV-2 (IC50=0.28 µM). The broad-spectrum antiviral effect
of niclosamide against SARS and MERS-CoV have been previously documented
and recent evidence suggests that in may inhibit autophagy and reduce
MERS C0V replication. 2) Ciclesonide, a corticosteroid used to treat
asthma and allergic rhinitis, also exhibited antiviral efficacy but with
a lower IC50 (4.33µM) compared to niclosamide. The antiviral effects of
ciclesonide were directed against NSP15, a viral riboendonuclease which
is the molecular target of this drug.

#### Limitations

The drugs were tested against SARS CoV-2 infectivity in
vitro only, therefore preclinical studies in animals and clinical trials
in patients will be need for validation of these drugs as therapeutic
agents for COVID-19. In addition, niclosamide exhibits low adsorption
pharmatokinetically which could be alleviated with further development
of drug formulation to increase effective delivery of this drug to
target tissues. Nonetheless, niclosamide and ciclesonide represent
promising therapeutic agents against SARS CoV-2 given that other
compounds tested in the same study including favipiravir (currently used
in clinical trials) and atazanavir (predicted as the most potent
antiviral drug by AI-inference modeling) did not exhibit antiviral
activity in the current study.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by K Alexandropoulos as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
