**Title: **

Hypertension and Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Inhibitors in
Patients with Covid-19

**Doi:** 10.1101/2020.04.24.20077388

**Keywords: **

Covid-19, ACE2, Hypertension, Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone, Angiotensin
II, Angiotensin-receptor blockers, ACE1 inhibitor

**The main finding of the article: **

This study analyzed the effects of the arterial hypertension and of the
use of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors on
mortality and recovery in patients with Covid-19. Through medical
records, the authors performed a multicenter retrospective study of 3017
COVID-19 patients hospitalized within the Hackensack Meridian Health
network in New Jersey. Among these patients, 52.5% presented a diagnosis
of hypertension. The authors showed a significantly increase (2.7 times)
of the mortality in patients with hypertension compared to Covid-19
patients without hypertension. However, when adjusted for age, the
effect of hypertension in mortality decreased, as the incidence of
hypertension was higher in older populations. In addition, when other
clinical or demographic conditions were taken into account, no effect of
hypertension on mortality was found.

In relation to the RAAS inhibitors, angiotensin converting enzyme 1
(ACE1) inhibitors and angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) were used in
22.8% and 18% of hypertensive patients. The use of ACE1 inhibitors and
ARBs were found not to have detrimental effects and perhaps offer some
protection to hypertensive patients in comparison with other
anti-hypertensive agents. Hospital discharge rates were 9% higher for
hypertensive patients prescribed RAAS inhibitors compared to other
anti-hypertensive agents.

**Critical analysis of the study: **

The manuscript needs a better scientific writing, especially more
in-depth details on the description of the patient population, clinical
parameters, treatments used, other co-morbidities. The implications for
COVID-19 disease of the upregulated cascade of vasoactive peptides
belonging to RAAS on hypertensive patients, the relationship between the
use of RAAS inhibitors on cytokine storm, plasma angiotensin II and ACE2
activity, could be better discussed. There is no information on which
ARBs or other anti-hypertensive agents were used, despite being an
important information given the different pharmacological
characteristics of each one.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics: **

While there is still uncertainty on the effect of RAAS inhibitors on
Covid-19 severity in hypertensive patients, this manuscript demonstrates
that ACE1 inhibitors and ARBs therapy are not detrimental, and can even
be protective in hypertensive individuals. These results thus support
the recommendations of the guidelines for maintaining therapy with these
classes of drugs in hypertensive SARS-CoV-19 patients.
