**Title:** scRNA-seq reveals ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression in TROP2+ Liver
Progenitor Cells: Implications in COVID-19 associated liver dysfunction

**Keywords:** SARS-CoV-2, COVID-19, ACE2, TMPRSS2, TROP2, Liver,
scRNA-seq

**Main findings:** The authors performed scRNA-seq on human liver tissue
and identified an epithelial progenitor cell type that co-express ACE2
and TMPRSS2. ACE2 receptor was highly expressed in cholangiocyte-biased
liver progenitors (EPCAM^+^) which also had a high expression for TROP2
gene. TMPRSS2 was expressed by both TROP2^high^ and TROP2^int^ liver
cells. The authors reported that these cholangiocyte-biased progenitor
cells had a high expression of TROP2 that correlated with high levels of
ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in liver. This suggests that SARS-CoV-2 can infect
TROP2^high^ cells via ACE2 and TMPRSS2, contributing to liver
dysfunction by compromising the ability of the human liver to regenerate
cholangiocytes. The authors also note that ACE2 and TMPRSS2 positive
cells are absent in human fetal liver.

**Critical Analyses**:

1\. Normal tissue from hepatocellular carcinoma patients are
tumor-adjacent tissues from these patients and might not be truly
‘normal’.

2\. Tissues from liver cancer patients may have an altered phenotype from
healthy controls.

3\. ACE2 expression may be variable and inducible in other cell types in
the context of inflammation.

**Relevance: **

The apparent only cell population in liver that expresses ACE2 and
TMPRSS2 are EPCAM+ liver progenitor cells, making them suitable hosts
for viral infection and potentially resulting in liver dysfunction. This
cell population of liver progenitors with a cholangiocyte fate bias may
favor SARS-CoV-2 entry into liver, affecting cholangiocyte precursors,
thus leading to liver comorbidities in COVID-19 patients.
