A.  Protection of Rhesus Macaque from SARS-Coronavirus challenge by
    recombinant adenovirus vaccine

B.  SARS-CoV-1, rhesus macaque, recombinant adenovirus vaccine

C.  Rhesus macaques were immunized intramuscularly twice (week 0 and
    week 4) with SV8000 carrying the information to express a S1-orf8
    fusion protein and the N protein from the BJ01 strain of SARS-CoV-1.
    By week 8, immunized animals had signs of immunological protection
    (IgG and neutralization titers) against SARS-CoV-1 and were
    protected against challenge with the PUMC-1 strain, with fewer
    detectable symptoms of respiratory distress, lower viral load,
    shorter periods of viral persistence, and less pathology in the
    lungs compared to non-immunized animals.

D.  The authors should write clearer descriptions of the methods used in
    this article. They do not describe how the IgG titers or
    neutralization titers were determined. There are some issues with
    the presentation of data, for example, in Figure 1a, y-axis should
    not be Vmax; forming cells and 1d would benefit from showing error
    bars. Furthermore, although I inferred that the animals were
    challenged at week 8, the authors did not explicitly detail when the
    animals were challenged. The authors should explain the design of
    their vaccine, including the choice of antigens and vector. The
    authors also do not include a description of the ethical use of
    animals in their study.

E.  The authors describe a vaccine for SARS-CoV-1 with no discussion of
    possible implications for the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Could a
    similar vaccine be designed to protect against SARS-CoV-2 and would
    the concerns regarding emerging viral mutations that the authors
    describe as a limitation for SARS-CoV-1 also be true in the context
    of SARS-CoV-2?


