10.1101/2020.03.09.983247

**Title:** Inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 infection (previously 2019-nCoV) by
a highly potent pan-coronavirus fusion inhibitor targeting its spike
protein that harbors a high capacity to mediate membrane fusion

**Keywords:** SARS-CoV2, S protein, fusion inhibitor, hACE2

**Main findings:**

Members of the coronavirus family rely on fusion with the host’s cell
membrane during infection. The spike (S) protein plays an essential role
in this step (1). This work sheds light on the particularities of the S
protein from SARS-CoV2 and compares it to previously existing
coronaviral S proteins. SARS-CoV2 S protein showed stronger affinity for
hACE2 compared to SARS-CoV. Previous work by this group had established
the potential of a previous version of the peptide (EK1) in reducing the
infectivity of several coronavirus by blocking the S protein
interactions with the host cell (2). In this work, authors present an
improved EK1C4 version of this peptide. In vitro experiments on human
cells showed EK1C4-mediated reduction of the infectivity of SARS-CoV-2
and other coronavirus. Administration of EK1C4 in prophylaxis or shortly
after exposure to the HCoV-OC43 coronavirus protected newborn mice from
virus-induced lethality.

**Limitations:**

This work suggests that the furin cleavage site from CoV2-S could be
related to its increased infectivity compared to CoV-S. However, a
previous report suggested that the enhanced cell-to-cell fusion mediated
by this furin cleavage might not necessarily translate into enhanced
viral infectivity (3). The mutation of this site, or inhibition of furin
in 293T cells expressing SARS-CoV or CoV-2 S proteins, could inform if
this mechanism is actually involved in SARS-CoV2 pathogenesis, and
potentially suggest additional routes for therapeutic intervention.

The in vivo model used to address the protective potential of EK1C4 is
based on the coronavirus HCoV-OC43. Further work should aim to establish
the potential of EK1C4 for prevention of SARS-CoV-2 replication in more
relevant animal models (e.g. Rhesus Macaques or hACE2 mice). It is,
however, acknowledged, that experimentation in vitro included both
SARS-CoV2 and the same HCoV-OC43 used in the in vivo infection model.

Even though the safety of the unmodified EK1 peptide in mice had been
previously examined (2), the potential side effects and
pharmacokinetics/dynamics of EK1C4 in the in vivo setting are not
addressed in this report.

**Relevance:**

The development of prophylactic drugs against viral infection is a
paramount element of epidemic control, specially in the time before a
vaccine can be readily available. Similar strategies have been followed
in the past in response to threats of this nature (4,5). This work’s
relevance is limited by the absence of relevant animal models of
SARS-CoV-2 infection. Further pharmacological analyses would also be
necessary to ensure the safety of EK1C4 in animal models before a
potential safety analysis in human subjects.

1\. Heald-Sargent T, Gallagher T. Ready, set, fuse! the coronavirus spike
protein and acquisition of fusion competence. Vol. 4, Viruses.
Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute (MDPI); 2012. p. 557–80.

2\. Xia S, Yan L, Xu W, Agrawal AS, Algaissi A, Tseng CTK, et al. A
pan-coronavirus fusion inhibitor targeting the HR1 domain of human
coronavirus spike. Sci Adv. 2019 Apr 1;5(4):eaav4580.

3\. Follis KE, York J, Nunberg JH. Furin cleavage of the SARS coronavirus
spike glycoprotein enhances cell-cell fusion but does not affect virion
entry. Virology. 2006 Jul 5;350(2):358–69.

4\. Jones JC, Turpin EA, Bultmann H, Brandt CR, Schultz-Cherry S.
Inhibition of Influenza Virus Infection by a Novel Antiviral Peptide
That Targets Viral Attachment to Cells. J Virol. 2006 Dec
15;80(24):11960–7.

5\. Ahmed A, Siman-Tov G, Hall G, Bhalla N, Narayanan A. Human
antimicrobial peptides as therapeutics for viral infections. Vol. 11,
Viruses. MDPI AG; 2019.
