**COVID-19 Critical Illness Pathophysiology Driven by Diffuse Pulmonary
Thrombi and Pulmonary Endothelial Dysfunction Responsive to
Thrombolysis**

Poor et al., medRxiv \[10.1101/2020.04.17.20057125\]

Keywords:

-   COVID-19

-   pneumonia

-   thrombolysis

-   endothelium

-   platelet

-   D-dimer

*Main findings*

This report describes the use of systemic tissue plasminogen activator
(tPA) to treat venous thromboembolism (VTE) seen in four critically ill
COVID-19 patients with respiratory failure. These patients all exhibited
gas exchange abnormalities, including shunt and dead-space ventilation,
despite well-preserved lung mechanics. A pulmonary vascular etiology was
suspected.

All four patients had elevated D-dimers and significant dead-space
ventilation. All patients were also obese, and 3/4 patients were
diabetic.

Not all patients exhibited an improvement in gas exchange or
hemodynamics during the infusion, but some did demonstrate improvements
in oxygenation after treatment. Two patients no longer required
vasopressors or could be weaned off them, while one patient became
hypoxemic and hypotensive and subsequently expired due to a cardiac
arrest. Echocardiogram showed large biventricular thrombi.

*Limitations*

In addition to the small sample size, all patients presented with
chronic conditions that are conducive to an inflammatory state. It is
unclear how this would have impacted the tPA therapy, but it is likely
not representative of all patients who present with COVID-19-induced
pneumonia. Moreover, each patient had received a different course of
therapy prior to receiving the tPA infusion. One patient received
hydroxychloroquine and ceftriaxone prior to tPA infusion, two patients
required external ventilator support, and another patient received
concurrent convalescent plasma therapy as part of a clinical trial. Each
patient received an infusion of tPA at 2 mg/hour but for variable
durations of time. One patient received an initial 50 mg infusion of tPA
over two hours. 3/4 patients were also given norepinephrine to manage
persistent, hypotensive shock. Of note, each patient was at a different
stage of the disease; One patient showed cardiac abnormalities and no
clots in transit on an echocardiogram, prior to tPA infusion.

*Significance*

The study describes emphasizes the importance of coagulopathies in
COVID-19 and describes clinical outcomes for four severe, COVID-19
patients, who received tPA infusions to manage poor gas exchange. While
the sample size is very limited and mixed benefits were observed,
thrombolysis seems to warrant further investigation as a therapeutic for
COVID-19-associated pneumonia that is characterized by D-dimer elevation
and dead-space ventilation. All four patients had normal platelet
levels, which may suggest that extrinsic triggers of the coagulation
cascade are involved.

The authors suspect that endothelial dysfunction and injury contribute
to the formation of pulmonary microthrombi, and these impair gas
exchange. Pulmonary thrombus formation has also been reported by other
groups; post-mortem analyses of 38 COVID-19 patients' lungs showed
diffuse alveolar disease and platelet-fibrin thrombi (Carsana et al.,
2020). Inflammatory infiltrates were macrophages in the alveolar lumen
and lymphocytes in the interstitial space (Carsana et al., 2020).
Endothelial damage in COVID-19 patients has also been directly
described, noting the presence of viral elements in the endothelium and
inflammatory infiltrates within the intima (Varga et al., 2020). One
hypothesis may be that the combination of circulating inflammatory
monocytes (previously described to be enriched among PBMCs derived from
COVID-19 patients) that express tissue factor, damaged endothelium, and
complement elements that are also chemotactic for inflammatory cells may
contribute to the overall pro-coagulative state described in COVID-19
patients.

*References*

Carsana, L., Sonzogni, A., Nasr, A., Rossi, R.S., Pellegrinelli, A.,
Zerbi, P., Rech, R., Colombo, R., Antinori, S., Corbellino, M., et al.
(2020) Pulmonary post-mortem findings in a large series of COVID-19
cases from Northern Itality. medRxiv. 2020.04.19.20054262.

Varga, Z., Flammer, A.J., Steiger, P., Haberecker, M., Andermatt, R.,
Zinkernagal, A.S., Mehra, M.R., Schuepbach, R.A., Ruschitzka, F., Moch,
H. (2020) Endothelial cell infection and endotheliitis in COVID-19.
Lancet. 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30937-5.

*The study described in this review was conducted by physicians of the
Divisions of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, Cardiology,
Nephrology, Surgery, and Neurosurgery and Neurology at the Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai. *

*Reviewed by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by students, postdocs,
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
