**Viral Kinetics and Antibody Responses in Patients with COVID-19**

<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.24.20042382>

*Immunology keywords*:

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, IgG, IgM, clinical, kinetics,
antibodies,

*Summary of Findings*:

-   Prospective cohort of 67 patients, clinical specimens taken and
    follow-up conducted.

-   Viral shedding, serum IgM, IgG antibody against NP evaluated and
    correlated to disease severity and clinical outcome

-   Viral RNA levels peaked at 1 week from febrile/cough symptom onset
    in sputum, nasal swabs, and stool samples. Shedding ranged from
    12-19 days (median ranges) and was longer in severe patients.

-   IgM and IgG titers stratified patients into three archetypes as
    ‘strong vs weak vs non-responders’. Strong responders (with higher
    IgM/IgG titers) were significantly higher in severe patients.

*Limitations (specific for immune monitoring)*:

-   Not clear if stool RNA captured from live infection in
    intestine/liver or from swallowed sputum. Transmission electron
    microscopy (TEM) carried out on sputum samples as proof of concept,
    but not stools. TEM unreasonable for actual clinical diagnosis.

-   Several patients had co-morbidities (such as pulmonary and liver
    disease) that were not accounted for when tracking antibody
    responses. Viral kinetics and IgM/IgG titers in subsets of patients
    with underlying conditions/undergoing certain medication would be
    informative.

*Importance/Relevance (specific for immune monitoring):*

-   Three archetypes of antibody response to SARS-CoV-2 with different
    disease progression and kinetics is useful to stratify patients, and
    for future serological tests.

-   Strong spike-IgG levels often correlate with lymphopenia and
    CoVID-19 disease severity
    (<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.20.20039495> ), similar to macaque
    studies in SARS (1). It would be critical to see if anti-NP or
    anti-Spike IgG antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 also elicit similar
    detrimental effects before clinical use.

*References:*

1.  Liu L, Wei Q, Lin Q, Fang J, Wang H, Kwok H, et al. JCI Insight
    2019; 4(4): pii: 123158. Doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.123158

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
