### Clinical characteristics of 36 non-survivors with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China

Huang et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.27.20029009]

#### Keywords

- Clinical Characteristics
- Non Survivors
- retrospective study

#### Main Findings

This is a simple study reporting clinical
characteristics of patients who did not survive COVID-19. All patients
(mean age=69.22 years) had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
and their median time from onset to ARDS was 11 days. The median time
from onset to death was 17 days. Most patients were older male (70%
male) with co-morbidities and only 11 % were smokers. 75% patients
showed bilateral pneumonia. Many patients had chronic diseases,
including hypertension (58.33%). cardiovascular disease (22.22%) and
diabetes (19.44%). Typical clinical feature measured in these patients
includes lymphopenia and elevated markers of inflammation.

#### Limitations

As noted by the authors, the conclusions of this study are
very limited because this is single-centered study focusing on a small
cohort of patients who did not survive. Many clinical parameters
observed by the authors (such* as increase levels of serum CRP, PCT,
IL-6) have also been described in other COVID19 patients who survived
the infection

#### Significance

This study is essentially descriptive and may be useful for
clinical teams monitoring COVID19 patients.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
