***Title:* The landscape of lung bronchoalveolar immune cells in
COVID-19 revealed by single-cell RNA sequencing**

*Immunology Keywords*

COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, Broncho-alveolar lavage, macrophages, NK cells, T
cells, cytokine storm, scRNAseq

*Main findings*

The authors performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) on
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) from 6 COVID-19 patients (n=3 mild
cases, n=3 severe cases). Data was compared to previously generated
scRNAseq data from healthy donor lung tissue (n=8).

Clustering analysis of the 6 patients revealed distinct immune cell
organization between mild and severe disease. Specifically, they found
that transcriptional clusters annotated as tissue resident alveolar
macrophages were strongly reduced while monocytes-derived FCN1^+^SPP1^+^
inflammatory macrophages dominated the BAL of patients with severe
COVID19 diseases. They show that inflammatory macrophages upregulated
interferon-signaling genes, monocytes recruiting chemokines including
CCL2, CCL3, CCL4 as well as IL-6, TNF, IL-8 and profibrotic cytokine
TGF-β, while alveolar macrophages expressed lipid metabolism genes, such
as PPARG.

The lymphoid compartment was overall enriched in lungs from patients.
Clonally expanded CD8 T cells were enriched in mild cases suggesting
that CD8 T cells contribute to viral clearance as in Flu infection,
whereas proliferating T cells were enriched in severe cases.

SARS-CoV-2 viral transcripts were detected in severe patients, but
considered here as ambient contaminations.

*Limitations of the study*

These results are based on samples from 6 patients and should therefore
be confirmed in the future in additional patients. Longitudinal
monitoring of BAL during disease progression or resolution would have
been most useful.

The mechanisms underlying the skewing of the macrophage compartment in
patients towards inflammatory macrophages should be investigated in
future studies.

Deeper characterization of the lymphoid subsets is required. The
composition of the “proliferating” cluster and how these cells differ
from conventional T cell clusters should be assessed. NK and CD8 T cell
transcriptomic profile, in particular the expression of cytotoxic
mediator and immune checkpoint transcripts, should be compared between
healthy and diseased lesions.

*Relevance*

COVID-19 induces a robust inflammatory cytokine storm in patients that
contributes to severe lung tissue damage and ARDS {1}. Accumulation of
monocyte-derived inflammatory macrophages at the expense of Alveolar
macrophages known to play an anti-inflammatory role following
respiratory viral infection, in part through the PPARγ pathway {2,3} are
likely contributing to lung tissue injuries. These data suggest that
reduction of monocyte accumulation in the lung tissues could help
modulate COVID-19-induced inflammation. Further analysis of lymphoid
subsets is required to understand the contribution of adaptive immunity
to disease outcome.

1\. Huang, C. *et al.* Clinical features of patients infected with 2019
novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China. *The Lancet* **395**, 497–506 (2020).

2\. Allard, B., Panariti, A. & Martin, J. G. Alveolar Macrophages in the
Resolution of Inflammation, Tissue Repair, and Tolerance to Infection.
*Front. Immunol.* **9**, 1777 (2018).

3\. Huang, S. *et al.* PPAR-γ in Macrophages Limits Pulmonary
Inflammation and Promotes Host Recovery following Respiratory Viral
Infection. *J Virol* **93**, e00030-19, /jvi/93/9/JVI.00030-19.atom
(2019).

Review by Bérengère Salomé and Assaf Magen as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai.
