### Aberrant pathogenic GM-CSF+ T cells and inflammatory CD14+CD16+ monocytes in severe pulmonary syndrome patients of a new coronavirus

[@doi:10.1101/2020.02.12.945576]

#### Keywords
- immunopathology
- Th1
- inflammatory monocytes
- GM-CSF
- IFN-γ
- IL-6

#### Main Findings

The authors of this study sought to characterize the immune
mechanism causing severe pulmonary disease and mortality in 2019-nCoV
(COVID-19) patients. Peripheral blood was collected from hospitalized
ICU (n=12) and non-ICU (n=21) patients with confirmed 2019-nCoV and from
healthy controls (n=10) in The First Affiliated Hospital of University
of Science and Technology China (Hefei, Anhui). Immune analysis was
conducted by flow cytometry. 2019-nCoV patients had decreased
lymphocyte, monocyte, and CD4 T cell counts compared to healthy
controls. ICU patients had fewer lymphocytes than non-ICU patients. CD4
T cells of 2019-nCoV patients expressed higher levels of activation
markers (OX40, CD69, CD38, CD44) and exhaustion markers (PD-1 and Tim3)
than those of healthy controls. CD4 cells of ICU patients expressed
significantly higher levels of OX40, PD-1, and Tim3 than those of
non-ICU patients. 2019-nCoV patients had higher percentages of CD4 T
cells co-expressing GM-CSF and IL-6 compared to healthy controls, while
ICU patients had a markedly higher percentage of GM-CSF+ IFN-γ+ CD4 T
cells than non-ICU patients. The CD4 T cells of nCoV patients and
healthy controls showed no differences in TNF-α secretion.

The CD8 T cells of 2019-nCoV patients also showed higher expression of
activation markers CD69, CD38, and CD44, as well as exhaustion markers
PD-1 and Tim3, compared to healthy controls. CD8 T cells of ICU patients
expressed higher levels of GM-CSF than those of non-ICU patients and
healthy controls. No IL-6 or TNF-α was found in the CD8 T cells of any
group. There were no differences in numbers of NK cells or B cells in
2019-nCoV patients and healthy controls, nor was there any GM-CSF or
IL-6 secretion from these cells in either group.

Percentages of CD14+ CD16+ GM-CSF+ and CD14+ CD16+ IL-6+ inflammatory
monocytes were significantly increased in nCoV patients compared to
healthy controls; in particular, patients in the ICU had greater
percentages of CD14+ CD16+ IL-6+ monocytes than non-ICU patients. The
authors suggest that in 2019-nCoV patients, pathogenic Th1 cells produce
GM-CSF, recruiting CD14+ CD16+ inflammatory monocytes that secrete high
levels of IL-6. These may enter pulmonary circulation and damage lung
tissue while initiating the cytokine storm that causes mortality in
severe cases. This is consistent with the cytokine storm seen in similar
coronaviruses, as IL-6, IFN-γ, and GM-CSF are key inflammatory mediators
seen in patients with SARS-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV.

#### Limitations

Though the results of this study open
questions for further investigation, this is an early study on a small
cohort of patients, and as such there are a number of limitations. The
study included only 12 ICU patients and 21 non-ICU patients, and ideally
would be repeated with a much larger patient cohort. Though the authors
make claims about differences in lymphocyte and monocyte counts between
patients and healthy controls, they did not report baseline laboratory
findings for the control group. Additionally, severity of disease was
classified based on whether or not patients were in the ICU. It would be
interesting to contextualize the authors’ immunological findings with
more specific metrics of disease severity or time course. Noting
mortality, time from disease onset, pre-existing conditions, or severity
of lung pathology in post-mortem tissue samples would paint a fuller
picture of how to assess risk level and the relationship between
severity of disease and immunopathology. Another limitation is the
selection of cytokines and immune markers for analysis, as the selection
criteria were based on the cell subsets and cytokine storm typically
seen in SARS-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV patients. Unbiased cytokine screens and
immune profiling may reveal novel therapeutic targets that were not
included in this study.

#### Significance

This study identifies potential therapeutic targets
that could prevent acute respiratory disease syndrome (ARDS) and
mortality in patients most severely affected by COVID-19. The authors
propose testing monoclonal antibodies against IL6-R or GM-CSF to block
recruitment of inflammatory monocytes and the subsequent cytokine storm
in these patients.

#### Credit

*Review by Gabrielle Lubitz as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
