**The Novel Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)
Directly Decimates Human Spleens and Lymph Nodes**

Review by Matthew D. Park

Revised by Miriam Merad

Keywords: COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, spleen, lymph node, ACE2, macrophage

*Main findings*

It has been previously reported that COVID-19 patients exhibit severe
lymphocytopenia, but the mechanism through which this depletion occurs
has not been described. In order to characterize the cause and process
of lymphocyte depletion in COVID-19 patients, the authors performed
gross anatomical and *in situ* immune-histochemical analyses of spleens
and lymph nodes (hilar and subscapular) obtained from post-mortem
autopsies of 6 patients with confirmed positive viremia and 3 healthy
controls (deceased due to vehicle accidents).

Primary gross observations noted significant splenic and LN atrophy,
hemorrhaging, and necrosis with congestion of interstitial blood vessels
and large accumulation of mononuclear cells and massive lymphocyte
death. They found that CD68^+^ CD169^+^ cells in the spleens, hilar and
subscapular LN, and capillaries of these secondary lymphoid organs
expressed the ACE2 receptor and stain positive for the SARS-CoV-2
nucleoprotein (NP) antigen, while CD3^+^ T cells and B220^+^ B cells
lacked both the ACE2 receptor and SARS-CoV-2 NP antigen. ACE2^+^ NP^+^
CD169^+^ macrophages were positioned in the splenic marginal zone (MZ)
and in the marginal sinuses of LN, which suggests that these macrophages
were positioned to encounter invading pathogens first and may contribute
to virus dissemination.

Since SARS-CoV-2 does not directly infect lymphocytes, the authors
hypothesized that the NP^+^ CD169^+^ macrophages are responsible for
persistent activation of lymphocytes via Fas::FasL interactions that
would mediate activation-induced cell death (AICD). Indeed, the
expression of Fas was significantly higher in virus-infected tissue than
that of healthy controls, and TUNEL staining showed significant
lymphocytic apoptosis. Since pro-inflammatory cytokines like IL-6 and
TNF-α can also engage cellular apoptosis and necrosis, the authors
interrogated the cytokine expression of the secondary lymphoid organs
from COVID-19 patients; IL-6, not TNF-α, was elevated in virus-infected
splenic and lymph node tissues, compared to those of healthy controls,
and immunofluorescent staining showed that IL-6 is primarily produced by
the infected macrophages. *In vitro* infection of THP1 cells with
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein resulted in selectively increased *Il6*
expression, as opposed to *Il1b* and *Tnfa* transcription. Collectively,
the authors concluded that a combination of Fas up-regulation and IL-6
production by NP^+^ CD169^+^ macrophages induce AICD in lymphocytes in
secondary lymphoid organs, resulting in lymphocytopenia.

In summary, this study reports that CD169^+^ macrophages in the splenic
MZ, subscapular LN, and the lining capillaries of the secondary lymphoid
tissues express ACE2 and are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The
findings point to the potential role of these macrophages in viral
dissemination, immunopathology of these secondary lymphoid organs,
hyperinflammation and lymphopenia.

*Limitations*

*Technical*

A notable technical limitation is the small number of samples (n=6);
moreover, the analysis of these samples using multiplexed
immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence do not necessarily provide
the depth of unbiased interrogation needed to better identify the cell
types involved.

*Biological*

The available literature and ongoing unpublished studies, including
single-cell experiments of spleen and LN from organ donors, do not
indicate that ACE2 is expressed by macrophages; however, it remains
possible that ACE2 expression may be triggered by type I IFN in COVID-19
patients. Importantly, the SARS-CoV-2 NP staining of the macrophages
does not necessarily reflect direct infection of these macrophages;
instead, positive staining only indicates that these macrophages carry
SARS-CoV-2 NP as antigen cargo, which may have been phagocytosed. Direct
viral culture of macrophages isolated from the secondary lymphoid organs
with SARS-CoV-2 is required to confirm the potential for direct
infection of macrophages by SARS-CoV-2. Additionally, it is important to
note that the low to negligible viremia reported in COVID-19 patients
to-date does not favor a dissemination route via the blood, as suggested
by this study, which would be necessary to explain the presence of
virally infected cells in the spleen.

*Relevance*

Excess inflammation in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection is characterized
by cytokine storm in many COVID-19 patients. The contribution of this
pathology to the overall fatality rate due to COVID-19, not even
necessarily directly due to SARS-CoV-2 infection, is significant. A
better understanding of the full effect and source of some of these
major cytokines, like IL-6, as well as the deficient immune responses,
like lymphocytopenia, is urgently needed. In this study, the authors
report severe tissue damage in spleens and lymph nodes of COVID-19
patients and identify the role that CD169^+^ macrophages may play in the
hyperinflammation and lymphocytopenia that are both characteristic of
the disease. It may, therefore, be important to note the effects that
IL-6 inhibitors like Tocilizumab and Sarilumab may specifically have on
splenic and LN function. It is important to note that similar
observations of severe splenic and LN necrosis and inflammation in
patients infected with SARS-CoV-1 further support the potential
importance and relevance of this study.
