**Immune Multi-epitope vaccine design using an immunoinformatics
approach for 2019 novel coronavirus in China (SARS-CoV-2) **

Vaccine, in silico, B cell epitopes, T cell epitopes

Using in silico bioinformatic tools, this study identified putative
antigenic B-cell epitopes and HLA restricted T-cell epitopes from the
spike, envelope and membrane proteins of SARS-CoV-2, based on the genome
sequence available on the NCBI database. T cell epitopes were selected
based on predicted affinity for the more common HLA-I alleles in the
Chinese population. Subsequently, the authors designed vaccine peptides
by bridging selected B-cell epitopes and adjacent T-cell epitopes.
Vaccine peptides containing only T-cell epitopes were also generated.

From 61 predicted B-cell epitopes, only 19 were exposed on the surface
of the virion and had a high antigenicity score. A total of 499 T-cell
epitopes were predicted. Based on the 19 B-cell epitopes and their 121
adjacent T-cell epitopes, 17 candidate vaccine peptides were designed.
Additionally, another 102 vaccine peptides containing T-cell epitopes
only were generated. Based on the epitope counts and HLA score, 13 of
those were selected. Thus, a total of 30 peptide vaccine candidates were
designed.

While this study provides candidates for the development of vaccines
against SARS-CoV-2, in vitro and in vivo trials are required to validate
the immunogenicity of the selected B and T cell epitopes. This could be
done using serum and cells from CoV-2-exposed individuals, and in
preclinical studies. The implication of this study for the current
epidemic are thus limited. Nevertheless, further research on this field
is greatly needed.

This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.
