**Tocilizumab treatment in severe COVID-19 patients attenuates the
inflammatory storm incited by monocyte centric immune interactions
revealed by single-cell analysis**

Guo et al., bioRxiv \[10.1101:2020.04.08.029769\]

Keywords:

-   Tocilizumab

-   COVID-19

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   monocytes

*Main findings*

Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on PBMCs from two COVID-19
patients treated with Tocilizumab, an interleukin (IL)-6 receptor
antagonist. One blood sample was taken from each patient within 12 hours
post-treatment (severe stage of disease), and a total of three blood
samples were taken 5 and 7 days post-treatment (recovery stage of
disease). A total of 13,289 cells were analyzed post-quality control and
compared to 55,948 previously published profiles of healthy PBMCs.

The authors identified a subpopulation of pro-inflammatory CD14^+^
monocyte/macrophages enriched in the severe stage of COVID-19,
characterized by the upregulation of TNF, IL-6, IL-1β, and CXCL8. In
addition, a cluster of plasma cells and subpopulations of effector
CD8^+^ T cells were found to be enriched in both the severe and recovery
stages. The authors attribute this finding to the fact that Tocilizumab
therapy does not necessarily compromise the anti-viral immune response.

*Limitations*

*Technical*

Only two patients were included in this analysis. Though both patients
were classified under severe COVID-19 disease, at the time of therapy,
patients PZ and PW were at significantly different stages of the
disease; PZ had an Sp~O2~ &lt; 93%, and PW presented with respiratory
failure, multiple organ dysfunction, and Sp~O2~ &lt; 93% under high flow
oxygen.

Of note, PBMCs collected from patients were compared to previously
published healthy controls. However, this is not a proper control; cells
collected from COVID-19 patients that had not been treated with
Tocilizumab are needed. Therefore, this comparison is not sufficient to
attribute significant differences in clustering patterns to Tocilizumab
treatment. Moreover, without additional details concerning improvement
of clinical symptoms after Tocilizumab therapy at days 5 and 7, there is
a lack of data supporting the claim that these timepoints (only a week
into therapy) necessarily represent a stage of recovery in COVID-19
patients.

Finally, PBMCs attributed to severe disease (presumably to define the
pre-treatment stage) were collected after administration of Tocilizumab,
instead of before administration to establish an untreated baseline
control. In addition, PBMCs attributed to the recovery stage were
collected at timepoints that were not necessarily the same for both
patients. Recovery stage cells from patient PZ were collected 5 days
post-treatment, whereas recovery stage cells from patient PW were
collected 5 and 7 days post-treatment. Because it was not clarified, it
must be assumed that the 5 and 7 day samples from patient PW were
combined to represent the recovery stage for that patient, but this
yields an inconsistent comparison between the two patients.

*Biological *

Enrichment of pro-inflammatory monocyte/macrophages in patients with
severe infections is expected. The study is missing a more detailed
characterization of cluster 9 (identified as the group of myeloid cells
unique to the severe stage) to potentially establish a novel gene
program specific to COVID-19. This is furthered by the fact that despite
authors' claims, cluster 9 technically belongs to both the severe and
recovery stages rather than being stage-specific. It is notable that
transcriptionally, the acute inflammatory response is reduced in the
defined recovery stage cells.

Other findings are expected, including the persistence of plasma B cells
and effector CD8^+^ T cells in response to a viral infection. In
addition to the technical limitations aforementioned, to better assess
the impact of Tocilizumab on the inflammatory response, both
transcriptional and translational outcomes must be investigated. It is
not sufficient to account the downregulation of pro-inflammatory
cytokines and chemokines to Tocilizumab treatment without the proper
controls.

*Significance*

IL-6R antagonists, like Tocilizumab and Sarilumab, have been raised as
potential therapeutics for COVID-19 as a means of reducing the
hyper-inflammation seen in patients. Understanding the cellular changes
that occur during and after therapy is important to determining the
efficacy of such therapy and whether inhibition of IL-6 signaling
compromises other adaptive immune mechanisms needed for a complete
anti-viral response. This study contributes to that analysis at the
single-cell level.

*Reviewed by Matthew D. Park and Assaf Magen as part of a project by
students, postdocs, and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
