#### **Title** **Structural and functional analysis of a potent sarbecovirus neutralizing** **antibody **

Pinto et al. *bioRxiv* \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.04.07.023903\]

#### Keywords

-   Neutralizing antibodies

-   ACE2/RBD binding

-   SARS-CoV-1

#### Main Findings

[]{#limitations .anchor}Antibodies were isolated from memory B cells of
a recovered SARS-CoV-1 infected individual. 8 out of 25 isolated
antibodies bound the SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) protein, and 4 bound the S
receptor binding domain (RBD) from SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2. One of
them (s309) neutralized SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 pseudoviruses with
similar potencies by binding to S RBD, as well as authentic SARS CoV2
(IC50‑69ng/ml). Single particle cryoEM structural mapping showed that
s309 bound to a strictly conserved protein/glycan epitope between
SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2, which is distinct from the RBD. Biolayer
interferometry indeed confirmed that s309 did not interfere with ACE2
and S binding. The authors also showed that weakly neutralizing
antibodies when used together with s309, enhanced its ability to
neutralize SARS CoV2.

The authors further explored the effect of the different antibodies on
NK-mediated antibody-dependent cell toxicity (ADCC) and
antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), both effector
mechanisms that can contribute to viral control in infected individuals.
s309 showed the highest ADCC and ADCP responses whereas other antibodies
showed limited or no activity. The authors propose that s309 besides
neutralization, may regulate protective mechanisms to mitigate viral
risk as shown for other antiviral antibodies. (ref 41,42 in the paper)

#### Limitations {#limitations-1}

Although s309 seems to be neutralizing in vivo, more studies need to be
performed with pre-clinical models. Also, it would have been interesting
to assess ADCC and ADCP in SARS-CoV-2 infected co-cultures of NK-cells
and ACE2-expressing cells. Although the mechanism of neutralization by
s309 is not understood, the authors postulate that S trimer
crosslinking, steric hindrance or aggregation of virions may all
contribute to the ability of the antibody to neutralize the virus.

*(Of note, legend and panels of figure 3 are* *mismatched)*

#### Significance

[]{#credit .anchor}This study identifies s309 as a potential human
monoclonal neutralizing antibody. It doesn’t neutralize SARS-CoV-2 by
inhibiting ACE2/RBD binding, as shown in other neutralizing
antibodies^1,2,3^. While clinical data is still needed, it is a
promising candidate for further development and *in* *vivo* testing.
Moreover, s309 binds to a conserved epitope between SARS-CoV-1 and
SARS-CoV-2, so it could possibly also neutralize other zoonotic
sarbecovirus (sub-genus of coronavirus).

#### Credit {#credit-1}

*Reviewed by Emma Risson as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*

*Edited by K Alexandropoulos*

1\. Sun C, Chen L, Yang J, et al. SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV Spike-RBD
Structure and Receptor Binding Comparison and Potential Implications on
Neutralizing Antibody and Vaccine Development. Microbiology; 2020.
doi:10.1101/2020.02.16.951723

2\. Wang C, Li W, Drabek D, et al. A Human Monoclonal Antibody Blocking
SARS-CoV-2 Infection. Microbiology; 2020. doi:10.1101/2020.03.11.987958

3\. Wu Y, Li C, Xia S, et al. Fully Human Single-Domain Antibodies
against SARS-CoV-2. Microbiology; 2020. doi:10.1101/2020.03.30.015990
