**Cigarette smoke triggers the expansion of a subpopulation of
respiratory epithelial cells that express the SARS-CoV-2 receptor ACE2**

<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.28.013672>

*Immunology keywords*:

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, respiration, cigarette, ACE2, lung

*Summary of Findings*:

-   Study uses scRNAseq, bulk seq data and air-liquid interface culture
    experiments to show that cigarette smoke causes a dose-dependent
    upregulation of ACE2 in mouse and human lungs (transplantation,
    tumor resection, or IPF datasets).

-   ACE2 was not up-regulated in patients with asthma or
    lung-sarcoidosis or in mouse models of cystic fibrosis or carcinogen
    exposure.

-   Cathepsin B (alternate protease involved in viral entry) is
    increased in smoke-exposed mouse or human lungs.

-   Smoke triggers a protective expansion of mucus-secreting MUC5AC+
    goblet and SCGB1A1+ club cells; ACE2 presence in these cells is
    increased upon smoke exposure.

*Limitations*:

-   Long-term smokers usually have several co-morbidities including
    immune dysfunction, which can affect interpretation of CoV-2
    susceptibility in these datasets. Ideally, analyses can control for
    major co-morbidities across smokers and non-smokers (immune
    suppression, cardiovascular disease and atherosclerosis).

-   Hyperplasia of ACE2+ goblet cells upon smoking needs to be separated
    from ACE2 upregulation in existing goblet cells.

-   ACE2 expression increase alone does not confirm increased viral
    entry into goblet cells; future studies with air-liquid interface
    cultures testing CoV-2 infectivity in *ex vivo* epithelial cells
    from human epithelial lines, ex vivo samples or hACE2 mice will be
    very informative.

*Importance/Relevance:*

-   This study may partially explain why smokers are more likely to
    develop severe SARS-CoV-2 infections. Also, the reversibility of
    ACE2 expression upon smoking cessation suggests that quitting
    smoking could lessen CoV-2 susceptibility.

-   Absence of ACE2 upregulation in other lung inflammation pathologies
    implies CoV-2 susceptibility might be smoking-specific, and not
    fibrosis-specific.

-   Another preprint showed ACE2 expression increases in lung of
    patients with CoV-2 co-morbidities such as hypertension
    (<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.21.20040261> ); these studies
    collectively paint a better picture of CoV-2 susceptibility before
    actual experiments can be carried out.

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
