**Title: **

Heterogeneous expression of the SARS-Coronavirus-2 receptor ACE2 in the
human respiratory tract

**Doi:** 10.1101/2020.04.22.056127

**Keywords: **

SARS-CoV-2, ACE2, TMPRSS2, Lung, alveolar type II cells

**The main finding of the article: **

In this study, distribution of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)
expression in the human cells of airways and its relation with clinical
and demographic characteristics were identified using available
databases of scRNA-seq, and immunohistochemistry. Samples from
conducting airways and lung parenchyma from donors having chronic
diseases, such as asthma and diabetes, were included (n = 15). Autopsy
tissues were used as control. Through the analysis of scRNAseq, and
staining of ACE2 in sections of lung parenquima, the authors
demonstrated that most of the cells expressing ACE2 were alveolar type
II (AT2). Of the AT2 cells, only 1.2% expressed ACE2 mRNA and 35.5%
expressed the protease TMPRSS2 mRNA in the scRNAseq analysis. TMPRSS2
mRNA was detected in 50% of ACE2+ AT2 cells. ACE2 mRNA was not detected
in alveolar type I (AT1) cells, macrophages, monocytes or dendritic
cells. In lung sections, atelectasis areas showed a higher percentage of
AT2 ACE2+ cells than non-collapsed alveoli. Interestingly, ACE2+ AT2
cells were hypertrophic compared to ACE2- AT2 cells.

In relation to the conducting airways, ACE2 protein expression was
abundant in ciliated cells of the thinner nasal epithelium, while few
ACE2+ cells were found in the trachea and bronchi where expression was
restricted to ciliated cells. scRNAseq of nasal tissue however
demonstrated ACE2 mRNA expression in all epithelial cell types, which
suggests a different regulation between transcription and translation of
ACE2.

When analyzing the regional distribution of the ACE2 in the airways
among donors a large variability was found. Despite that, it was
demonstrated that the nasal epithelium and alveoli exhibit greater
presence of this protein. Sex and chronic diseases were not associated
with ACE2 expression, but its detection was higher in young children
than adults.

**Critical analysis of the study: **

The manuscript needs better consistency between the main text, methods
and figure legends. Comparisons with a control group are confusing and
not always present. The different comorbidities presented by donors may
have interfered with the results presented, since each disease has a
pathophysiology. Furthermore, since the immunohistochemistry analyzes
were analyzed qualitatively, there should have been an evaluation by at
least two different pathologists and not one. The authors could have
analyzed the correlation between some immune markers with the presence
of the ACE2 in the AT2 cells, since the tissues came from chronic
patients. ACE2 functions in the respiratory system could have been
better discussed.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics: **

These results demonstrating ACE2 expression in nasal epithelium and lung
alveolar AT2 cells, corroborates the potential of these tissues as sites
involved in viral replication and transmission, as well involvement in
severe lung failure. The mapping of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression in cells
of the respiratory system may help to define news therapeutic targets.
