**Sex differences in immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 that underlie
disease outcomes**

Takahashi et al.; medRxiv \[10.1101/2020.06.06.20123414\]

*Keywords*

-   COVID-19

-   Sex

-   Immune response

-   Monocytes

-   Cytokines

-   T cells

*Main findings*

Sex-based differences in the immune response have been reported for
various types of infections. There is a growing body of epidemiological
evidence that supports the finding that men experience more severe
COVID-19 disease than women do, but the immune mechanisms underscoring
such a difference remain unknown.

Here, Takahashi et al. analyze PBMCs, plasma, and nasopharyngeal swabs
or saliva from 93 mild-to-moderate COVID-19 patients (n=93), comprised
of 48 women (n=48) and 45 men (n=45), to characterize potential
sex-based differences in the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. It
is important to note that patients on hydroxychloroquine and Remdesivir
were not excluded from a sub-cohort of patients (n=39) evaluated as
baseline measures for untampered immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 (these
patients were not treated prior to first sample collection). In a second
sub-cohort, 54 patients were assessed longitudinally for an undisclosed
amount of time. Samples from uninfected healthcare workers were used as
controls.

*Viral Load (nasopharyngeal or saliva samples)*

No significant differences were identified between male and female
patients. Still, median viral RNA was higher in male patients at first
sample collection and generally throughout disease course.

*Antibody production (plasma samples)*

Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein-specific IgG and IgM antibodies were measured
in the plasma of male and female patients. Though anti-S1-IgG antibodies
were higher in female patients, compared to male patients, no
significant differences could be identified either in the baseline
cohort or in longitudinal patients.

*Cytokine analysis* *(plasma samples)*

Among baseline patients, who had not received immunomodulatory therapy
prior to sample collection (except hydroxychloroquine), type I/II/III
IFN levels were not significantly different between male and female
patients. However, IL-8 was significantly higher in male than in female
patients. Of note, among longitudinally evaluated patients, CCL5 levels
were significantly higher in male than in female patients. CXCL10 levels
show a similar trend, though this was not significant.

*Immune cell landscape (PBMCs)*

Both male and female patients exhibited a reduction among T cells and an
increase in B cells. No significant differences in T cell subtypes
(naïve, central/effector memory, follicular, regulatory) were observed
between male and female patients. Of note, however, female patients
showed (1) a significantly greater proportion of CD38^+^HLA-DR^+^
activated CD8^+^ T cells and (2) a concomitant enrichment of
PD-1^+^TIM-3^+^ terminally differentiated T cells, compared to male
patients. Otherwise, no other significant differences were identified
between male and female patients.

The authors subsequently interrogated the peripheral myeloid
compartment. Female patients showed a greater increase in CD14^+^CD16^+^
intermediate monocytes than male patients, while both patients exhibited
a marked increase in total monocytes, compared to the controls. However,
male patients showed higher levels of CD14^lo^CD16^+^ non-classical
monocytes than female patients and their uninfected, healthy
counterparts. The authors noted that this enrichment of non-classical
monocytes was correlated with CCL5 levels only in male patients.

*Clinical comparison*

Clinical outcomes were tracked for both male and female patients.
Clinical scoring was used to separate each group into two sub-groups:
patients that had remained stable throughout hospital stay (stabilized)
and patients that had worsened since the first sample collection
(deteriorated). Deteriorated male patients were significantly older than
stabilized male patients; there was no significant difference in age
between stabilized and deteriorated female patients. In terms of BMI,
both deteriorated male and female patients tended to be higher in BMI
than their respective stabilized counterparts. Interestingly,
anti-S1-IgG antibodies were higher in stabilized female patients than
their deteriorated counterparts, though this trend was not seen with
male patients. Otherwise, no other significant differences in clinical
parameters were observed.

Additional comparisons between deteriorated and stabilized patients of
each sex revealed that certain innate cytokine mediators (TNFSF10 and
IL-15) associated with worse outcome in female patients but not in male
patients. In contrast, the proportion of CD38^+^HLA-DR^+^ activated
CD8^+^ T cells was significantly reduced in deteriorated male patients
compared to their stable counterparts, but this was not true for female
patients. Indeed, poor CD8+ T cell activation and IFNɣ production were
both negatively correlated with age in male patients, but not in female
patients.

*Limitations*

-   A significant number of patients were diagnosed with underlying
    chronic conditions that have been previously described to associate
    with poorer COVID-19 outcomes or with a compromised immune system.

-   Approximately two-thirds of each group (men and women) were treated
    with tocilizumab, and nearly a sixth of each group were treated with
    corticosteroids. While these patients were excluded from the
    baseline cohort, it is unclear whether or not these patients
    contributed to the second cohort that was longitudinally examined.

-   The mean age for patients is notably higher than the mean age for
    the HCW control group.

-   Duration of hospital stay was not considered, so it is unclear how
    quickly certain subsets of male and female patients deteriorated.
    This may be a confounding variable, or at the very least, the
    kinetics of disease course in male and female patients is a
    parameter that warrants investigation.

*Significance*

In summary, Takahashi et al. provide the first report-to-date that
delineates immunological differences between male and female patients
with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 disease during the initial stages of
infection. For example, male patients deteriorate due to less robust T
cell-mediated antiviral immunity, compared to their female counterparts.
Several of the other findings substantiate previous reports, such as
those of significant neutrophil chemotaxis in the lung of COVID-19
patients (and its association with poorer prognosis). This study,
therefore, provides an important platform for additional inquiries into
key signaling pathways and transcriptional programs that are
differentially regulated between male and female COVID-19 patients by
specific cell types (i.e. intermediate and non-classical monocytes,
CD38^+^HLA-DR^+^ CD8^+^ T cells) identified in this report. These
studies, alongside others, are warranted to better tailor therapies for
male and female COVID-19 patients.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai. *
