### Clinical Features of Patients Infected with the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Shanghai, China

Cao et al. *medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.04.20030395]

#### Keywords

- Disease severity
- clinical features
- laboratory abnormalities

#### Main Findings

This single-center cohort study analyzes the clinical and
laboratory features of 198 patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection in
Shanghai, China and correlated these parameters with clinical disease
severity, including subsequent intensive care unit (ICU) admission. 19
cases (9.5%) required ICU admission after developing respiratory failure
or organ dysfunction. Age, male sex, underlying cardiovascular disease,
and high symptom severity (high fever, dyspnea) were all significantly
correlated with ICU admission. Additionally, ICU admission was more
common in patients who presented with lymphopenia and elevated
neutrophil counts, among other laboratory abnormalities. Flow cytometric
analysis revealed that patients admitted to the ICU had significantly
reduced circulating CD3+ T cell, CD4+ T cell, CD8+ T cell, and CD45+
leukocyte populations compared to the cohort of patients not requiring
ICU admission.

#### Limitations

The limitations of this study include the relatively
small sample size and lack of longitudinal testing. The authors also did
not assess whether respiratory comorbidity – such as asthma or chronic
obstructive lung disease – in addition to immunosuppression affected ICU
admission likelihood.

#### Significance

COVID-19 has already sickened thousands across the globe,
though the severity of these infections is markedly diverse, ranging
from mild symptoms to respiratory failure requiring maximal
intervention. Understanding what clinical, laboratory, and immunologic
factors predict the clinical course of COVID-19 infection permits
frontline providers to distribute limited medical resources more
effectively.

#### Credit

*Review by Andrew Charap as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai.*
