### Title 

[]{#keywords .anchor}**Serum protein profiling reveals a landscape of
inflammation and immune signaling in early-stage COVID-19 infection**

*Keywords*

-   **Serum Profiling**

-   **Cytokines**

-   Protein array

-   **CCL2**

-   **CXCL10**

[]{#main-findings .anchor}*Main Findings*

In this preprint Hou *et al.*, analyze serological immune mediators and
other proteins from individuals with early COVID-19 symptoms using an
antibody microarray that detects 532 target proteins. Patients were
classified as COVID-19 (n=13) or influenza (n=15) based on positive RT
PCR test for SARS-CoV-2 RNA (COVID-19) or FluA, FluB, RSV RNA (all
classified as influenza group).

88 up-regulated and 37 down-regulated proteins were identified by
comparing COVID-19 and influenza patient groups (p-value &lt; 0.05).
Some of those up-regulated ytyl34proteins were reported before, such as
IFN-𝜸, IL-6, CXCL8, CCL2, CXCL10 and some that were not previously
associated with COVID-19, such as IL-20, CCL27 and IL-21. Complement
proteins C1R and C7, as well as PLG were found to be reduced in COVID-19
patients.

After performing a correlation analysis of the differentially
upregulated proteins and clinical data, the authors found a positive
correlation between expression of several proteins in the CCL2 and
CXCL10 signaling pathways and clinical parameters typically related to
liver and renal function, myocardial injury, inflammation and infection,
as well as neutrophils counts. Conversely, most of these same proteins
show a negative correlation with lymphocyte counts.[]{#limitations
.anchor}

*Limitations*

The control “influenza group” had patients negative for influenza virus
but positive for RSV, and thus the nomenclature should be revised. As
noted by the authors, a larger cohort should be used to validate
findings. There is no multivariate analysis, and identification of
independent or confounding variables. Even though several proteins were
differentially expressed between the patient groups, there was
significant overlap between the groups, which may preclude the use of
any single protein as a biomarker. Data on clinical variables should
have been included in main figure. It is unclear why the authors
annotated serum proteins in cellular components. Proteins in CCL2 and
CXCL10 interaction network are largely overlapping, but the authors do
not emphasize it.

Authors didn’t show lymphocyte and neutrophil counts. Since it is known
that severe COVID-19 patients can present lymphopenia and neutrophilia,
it would be important to have this information in their cohort as they
are correlating protein levels with neutrophils and lymphocytes.

Authors claim that CCL2 can act as an autocrine factor that promotes
viral replication in infected macrophages, and cite one paper with HIV,
but authors should discuss that this chemokine recruits monocytes to the
site of infection and then could contribute to the increased
inflammatory response related to COVID-19.

*Significance*

This study shows the potential use protein array to simultaneously
identify many different proteins in serum of COVID-19 patients.

[]{#credit .anchor}The authors identify several differentially expressed
proteins (potential biomarkers) and correlate them with clinical indices
that give insights on possible therapy targets in COVID-19.

*Credit*

*Reviewed *by Alessandra Soares-Schanoski* as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
