**Title: **

Vitamin D insufficiency is prevalent in severe COVID-19

**Doi:** 10.1101/2020.04.24.20075838

**Keywords: **

SARS-CoV-2, Covid-19, Vitamin D insufficiency, African American

**The main finding of the article: **

This study analyzed the prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency (VDI)
among SARS-CoV-2 positive subjects hospitalized in a medical center
situated in New Orleans. Through medical records, the authors performed
a retrospective review of 20 Covid-19 patients with serum
25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25ODH) levels determined. Vitamin D
insufficiency (VDI) was defined as a serum 25OHD &lt; 30 ng/mL. Among
these patients, 65% required intensive care unit (ICU). When they
analyzed the 25ODH levels, 84.6% of ICU subjects presented VDI in
compare to 57.1% of floor subjects. Curiously, 100% of ICU patients less
than 75 years old had VDI. In addition, the authors demonstrated that
lymphocytopenia was present in 92.3% of the Covid-19 patients admitted
to ICU. Among the clinical and demographic characteristics of
SARS-Cov-19 ICU patients of this study we can highlight: 84% of the
subjects were African American, hypertension and diabetes was presented
in 76.9% and 46.2% ICU and non-ICU patients respectively, the body mass
index of 100% of the patients was considered overweight or obesity, and
all had high levels of lactate dehydrogenase.

**Critical analysis of the study: **

The manuscript data and patient description is well presented. However,
the number of patients analyzed is very small to extract meaningful
conclusions. The manuscript has a comprehensive discussion on the
effects of VDI in prothrombosis and inflammation. The presence of
vitamin D receptors in lung epithelial cells and macrophages suggests
that the influences of vitamin D (VD) is relevant for respiratory
health. It is known that active VD acts by reducing inflammation in
human airway smooth muscle cells and influences airway barrier
integrity. In addition to increasing the study population, the authors
could have analyzed the direct correlation between VDI and lung damage
(using specifics parameters like tomography and arterial blood gas
analysis), since these exams are often prescribed to patients with
severe acute respiratory syndrome.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics: **

VDI is highly prevalent in dark-skinned individuals, and in the Italian
and Spanish populations. VDI could thus contribute to Covid-19 severity
disease in these populations, as VD plays an essential role in
modulating the innate and adaptative immune response. This manuscript
suggests that healthy levels of VD, through controlled supplementation,
can help the immune system to protect against respiratory diseases like
SARS-CoV-19.
