**Title: **

**Homologous protein domains in SARS-CoV-2 and measles, mumps and
rubella viruses:**

**preliminary evidence that MMR vaccine might provide protection against
COVID-19**

**Immunology keywords: SARS-CoV-2, COVID-19, MMR vaccine, protection **

**The main findings of the article: **

This work aimed to determine whether measles, mumps and rubella (MMR)
vaccination might provide protection against COVID-19. The authors
examined: 1) sequence homologies between SARS-CoV2 and measles, mumps
and rubella viruses; 2) correlations between MMR vaccination coverage,
rubella antibody titers, and COVID-19 case fatality in European
countries.

Sequences of measles, mumps and rubella virus, which are component of
MMR vaccine, were aligned to SARS-CoV-2 to identify homologous domains
at the amino acid level. The Macro domain of rubella virus p150, a
protease) aligned with SARS-CoV-2 Macro domain of non-structural protein
3 (NSP3), also a protease, at 29 % amino acids identity, suggest
similarity in protein folding. Residues conserved in both strains
include surface-expressed residues and residues required for ADP-ribose
binding, and ADP-ribose 1” phosphatase (ADRP) enzymatic activity.
Although the Macro domains are within a cytoplasmic non-structural
protein, the authors speculate that they could contribute to vaccine
antigenicity if released upon cell lysis. Measles and mumps, both
paramyxoviruses, showed structural homology between their F proteins and
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. Both F proteins and spike proteins are
responsible for fusion of viral and cellular membrane. The sequence
identity was 20 % over a 369-amino acid region and surface-exposed
residues were well conserved.

The examination of historic vaccination schedules or recommendations for
MMR vaccination in Italy, Spain and Germany revealed that populations
who are currently in the age group of 40-49 years old in Germany, 30-39
years old in Spain, and 20-29 years old in Italy were vaccinated.
However, the rubella vaccine was introduced for pre-adolescent girls and
campaigns for women in child bearing age were conducted early 1970s to
90s in each countries. The latter might cover the women who are
currently in the age group of 59-69 years old. If MMR is indeed
protected for COVID-19 fatality, the above analysis would suggest that
older populations and males are both more likely to die from Covid-19,
and less likely to be seropositive for rubella specific immunity.

On the other hand, analysis of anti-rubella IgG titers in moderate and
severe COVID-19 patients showed increased levels of rubella IgG in
severe patients. To argue that the increase in rubella antibodies in
severe COVID-19 was not due to a generalized increased antibody
response, the authors mentioned that there was no increase in varicella
zoster virus antibody titers in a small subset of patients analyzed.
While increase of anti-rubella IgM was not clearly observed in both
severe and mild patients, anti-rubella IgG antibody titers were
increased in patients who had been admitted for a period of less than 7
days. The authors suggest that IgG titers trend with disease burden on
the basis of the shared homology between SARS-CoV2 and rubella virus.

**Critical analysis of the study:**

This study demonstrated shared homologies between SARS-CoV2 and MMR
viruses that could support the hypothesis that previous MMR vaccination
protects against fatality in COVID-19 patients. The authors suggested
that older populations and males were less likely to be seropositive for
rubella and this might be related to their higher mortality rate. On the
other hand, they found that anti-rubella IgG was higher in severe
patients than mild patients with COVID-19. Since there was no
information about the demographics of severe and mild patients,
especially the percentage of male patients and average age to analyze
the relationship between severity and MMR vaccination history, the data
appears inconclusive. Because of the homology in spike protein of
SARS-CoV-2 and F protein of paramyxoviruses, which are important for
virus entry in the host cells, measuring cross-reactive anti-measles and
anti-mumps antibody titers may provide more information on whether MMR
vaccination has the potential to protect against COVID-19.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics**

The homology search for conserved domains among different virus strains
and vaccine antigens may provide helpful information to develop vaccine
antigens that elicit cross-reactive immunity to several viruses. While
it is not clear at present if MMR vaccination reduces or not the
severity of COVID-19, given the high coverage of MMR vaccination and the
potential for vaccines to modulate innate immunity, this question
deserves further investigation.
