### Potent binding of 2019 novel coronavirus spike protein by a SARS coronavirus-specific human monoclonal antibody

Tian et al. *Emerg Microbes Infect 2020* [@doi:10.1101/2020.01.28.923011]

#### Keywords

- Monoclonal antibody
- Cross-reactivity
- receptor binding domain

#### Summary

Considering the relatively high identity of the receptor binding domain
(RBD) of the spike proteins from 2019-nCoV and SARS-CoV (73%), this
study aims to assess the cross-reactivity of several anti-SARS-CoV
monoclonal antibodies with 2019-nCoV. The results showed that the
SARS-CoV-specific antibody CR3022 can potently bind 2019-nCoV RBD.

#### Main findings

The structure of the 2019-nCoV spike RBD and its conformation in complex
with the receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE2) was modeled *in
silico* and compared with the SARS-CoV RBD structure. The models
predicted very similar RBD-ACE2 interactions for both viruses. The
binding capacity of representative SARS-CoV-RBD specific monoclonal
antibodies (m396, CR3014, and CR3022) to recombinant 2019-nCoV RBD was
then investigated by ELISA and their binding kinetics studied using
biolayer interferometry. The analysis showed that only CR3022 was able
to bind 2019-nCoV RBD with high affinity (KD of 6.3 nM), however it did
not interfere with ACE2 binding. Antibodies m396 and CR3014, which
target the ACE2 binding site of SARS-CoV failed to bind 2019-nCoV spike
protein.

#### Limitations

The 2019-nCoV RBD largely differ from the SARS-CoV at the C-terminus
residues, which drastically impact the cross-reactivity of antibodies
described for other B beta-coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV. This study
claims that CR3022 antibody could be a potential candidate for therapy.
However, none of the antibodies assayed in this work showed
cross-reactivity with the ACE2 binding site of 2019-nCoV, essential for
the replication of this virus. Furthermore, neutralization assays with
2019-nCoV virus or pseudovirus were not performed. Although the use of
neutralizing antibodies is an interesting approach, these results
suggest that it is critical the development of novel monoclonal
antibodies able to specifically bind 2019-nCoV spike protein.

#### Credit

*Review by D.L.O as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty
at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount
Sinai.*
