**Non-neural expression of SARS-CoV-2 entry genes in the olfactory
epithelium**

**suggests mechanisms underlying anosmia in COVID-19 patients**

<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.25.009084>

*Immunology keywords*:

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, anosmia, olfaction, scRNAseq,

*Summary of Findings*:

-   Study analyzed bulk and scRNAseq data of olfactory cell types from
    publicly-available mouse, nonhuman primate and human datasets.

-   show that *ACE2* and *TMPRSS2* (genes involved in SARS-CoV-2 entry)
    are expressed in olfactory epithelial (OE) cells, basal stem cells
    and respiratory epithelium (RE), but not sensory neurons.

-   Comparison of human RE and OE datasets (Deprez et al. 2019; Durante
    et al. 2020) revealed that *ACE2* and *TMPRSS2* expression in OE
    sustentacular cells was similar to expression in the remainder of
    the non-nasal respiratory tract.

*Limitations*:

-   Transcript data alone from healthy respiratory/olfactory cells is
    not sufficient to confirm infectivity of nasal passage, or to
    indicate damage to epithelia.

-   No mechanism defined for anosmia; it is not clear if epithelial
    injury leads to reduced sensitivity or increased inflammation and
    altered immune contexture drives neural/epithelial dysfunction. Will
    be critical to test this in CoVID-19 patient samples or mouse
    models.

*Importance/Relevance:*

-   Study provides possible rationale for anosmia observed in several
    CoVID-19 patients.

-   Raises possibility that nasal respiratory goblet, ciliated cells,
    and olfactory epithelia may serve as a viral reservoir after initial
    SARS-CoV-2 infection.

-   Human olfactory sensory neurons express several other molecules
    important to CoV (not CoV-19) entry such as *FURIN, ST6GAL1,
    ST3GAL4*; this suggests wider mechanism of neuronal infectivity in
    other coronaviruses.

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
