***Title:*** Rapid isolation and profiling of a diverse panel of human
monoclonal antibodies targeting the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein

***Keywords:*** Coronavirus; SARS-CoV-2; SARS-CoV; COVID-19; Monoclonal
antibodies; Adaptive Immunity

***Summary/Main findings: ***

Zost et al. describe the methodology used to efficiently generate a
large library of highly-functional monoclonal antibodies directed
against the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein. Several different approaches
were used to select the antibodies characterized in this study. Briefly,
plasma or serum was obtained from four patients infected with
SARS-CoV-2, and ELISA binding assays were used to confirm the presence
of reactive antibodies to the prefusion ectodomain of either the
SARS-CoV-2 or SARS-CoV S protein. Additional screens were used to assess
the presence of antibodies capable of binding to the receptor binding
domain (RBD) as well as the entire N-terminal domain (NTD) of the
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The highest reactivity was seen in binding
assays when the antigenic targets were the SARS-CoV-2 spike S2P
ectodomain or RBD. SARS-CoV-2 S-specific class-switched memory B cells
were isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) via flow
cytometry. The two patients whose blood was collected at later stages of
convalescence displayed higher frequencies of antigen-specific memory B
cells and greater levels of neutralizing antibodies. S2P ectodomain- and
RBD-specific memory B cells sorted from these two patients PBMCs were
pooled and cultured for one week in wells containing a feeder layer of
cells expressing CD40L, IL-21, and BAFF. Approximately 50% of these
cells were single-cell sequenced for antibody gene synthesis. The other
half were placed in a Berkeley Lights Beacon Optofluidic instrument to
further identify, select, and export antigen-reactive B cells prior to
single cell antibody sequencing and cloning into immunoglobulin
expression vectors. Both approaches yielded a combined total of 386
recombinant SARS-CoV-2 reactive human monoclonal antibodies. Subsequent
ELISA and neutralization assays were used to separate these antibodies
into five classes based on their cross-reactivity with SARS-CoV and the
specific binding domains on the SARS-CoV-2 S protein. Bioinformatic
analysis of the immunoglobulin sequences revealed a high degree of
relatedness to the inferred unmutated ancestor immunoglobulin genes.

***Critical Analysis:***

This study characterizes a robust repertoire of SARS-CoV-2
spike-specific antibodies. The authors begin to shed light on the
binding sites of these antibodies by describing the domains on the spike
protein to which these antibodies react. However, in order to more fully
capture the mechanism of neutralization for the leading therapeutic
candidates, it will be important to further characterize the specific
epitopes and structural binding modes. This is especially important
since many of the antibodies identified in this study will not directly
interfere with the RBD/ACE2 interaction and therefore likely act through
another mechanism such as destabilizing the spike prefusion
conformation. Another interesting observation raised in this study is
that, as seen with Ebola, patients do not possess a high frequency of
memory B cells expressing neutralizing antibodies until later in
convalescence. However, given the small number of patients in the study,
a larger sample is needed to confirm this conclusion. While this study
presents a comprehensive class of candidate antibodies for therapeutic
development there is still much needed data describing the protective
potential of these antibodies in animal models challenged with
SARS-CoV-2, as the authors assert as well. Finally, as synergy has been
observed in strong B cell response for other coronaviruses and the fact
that antibody cocktails are an effective treatment platform to prevent
mutation escape, it would be helpful to know whether specific
combinations of these monoclonal antibodies enhance neutralization and
in vivo protection.

***Relevance/Implications:***

In conclusion, this study presents a robust analysis of the specific B
cell response to SARS-CoV-2 in a small number of individuals, and
describes practical techniques to isolating a large and diverse panel of
human monoclonal antibodies. In addition to revealing potential
therapeutic antibody candidates for COVID-19, the authors provide
additional information as to the complicated and inconsistent
observations of antibody cross-reactivity and cross-neutralization in
the context of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. Information on conserved and
highly potent neutralizing targets of antibody responses will be
critical down the road as we evaluate the immunogenicity of vaccine
candidates. Meanwhile, the information in this study can be directly
applied to the therapeutic antibody pipeline for SARS-CoV-2 and the
methodologies described here can be adapted for similar emerging
pathogens in the future.
