### The definition and risks of Cytokine Release Syndrome-Like in 11 COVID-19-Infected Pneumonia critically ill patients: Disease Characteristics and Retrospective Analysis

#### Keywords
- Cytokine release syndrome (CRS)
- biomarkers
- ARDS
- IL-6
- lymphopenia

#### Main Findings

This study describes the occurrence of a cytokine release syndrome-like
(CRSL) toxicity in ICU patients with COVID-19 pneumonia. The median time
from first symptom to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) was 10
days. All patients had decreased CD3, CD4 and CD8 cells, and a
significant increase of serum IL-6. Furthermore, 91% had decreased NK
cells. The changes in IL-6 levels preceded those in CD4 and CD8 cell
counts. All of these parameters correlated with the area of pulmonary
inflammation in CT scan images. Mechanical ventilation increased the
numbers of CD4 and CD8 cells, while decreasing the levels of IL-6, and
improving the immunological parameters.

#### Limitations

The number of patients included in this retrospective single center
study is small (n=11), and the follow-up period very short (25 days).
Eight of the eleven patients were described as having CRSL, and were
treated by intubation (7) or ECMO (2). Nine patients were still in the
intensive care unit at the time of publication of this article, so their
disease outcome is unknown.

#### Significance

The authors define a cytokine release syndrome-like toxicity in patients
with COVID-19 with clinical radiological and immunological criteria: 1)
decrease of circulating CD4, CD8 and NK cells; 2) substantial increase
of IL-6 in peripheral blood; 3) continuous fever; 4) organ and tissue
damage. This event seems to occur very often in critically ill patients
with COVID-19 pneumonia. Interestingly, the increase of IL-6 in the
peripheral blood preceded other laboratory alterations, thus, IL-6 might
be an early biomarker for the severity of COVID-19 pneumonia. The
manuscript will require considerable editing for organization and
clarity.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
