*Title*: Clinical findings in critically ill patients infected with
SARS-CoV-2 in Guangdong Province, China: a multi-center, retrospective,
observational study 

*Immunology keywords*: clinical outcomes, prognosis, critically ill
patients, ICU, lymphopenia, LDH

*Main findings*:

This work analyses laboratory and clinical data from 45 patients treated
in the in ICU in a single province in China. Overall, 44% of the
patients were intubated within 3 days of ICU admission with only 1
death.

Lymphopenia was noted in 91% of patient with an inverse correlation with
LDH.

Lymphocyte levels are negatively correlated with Sequential Organ
Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (clinical score, the higher the more
critical state), LDH levels are positively correlated to SOFA score.
Overall, older patients (&gt;60yo), with high SOFA score, high LDH
levels and low lymphocytes levels at ICU admission are at higher risk of
intubation.

Of note, convalescent plasma was administered to 6 patients but due to
limited sample size no conclusion can be made.

*Limitation of the study*:

While the study offers important insights into disease course and
clinical lab correlates of outcome, the cohort is relatively small and
is likely skewed towards a less-severe population compared to other ICU
reports given the outcomes observed. Analysis of laboratory values and
predictors of outcomes in larger cohorts will be important to make
triage and treatment decisions. As with many retrospective analyses,
pre-infection data is limited and thus it is not possible to understand
whether lymphopenia was secondary to underlying comorbidities or
infection.

Well-designed studies are necessary to evaluate the effect of
convalescent plasma administration.

*Relevance*: This clinical data enables the identification of at-risk
patients and gives guidance for research for treatment options. Indeed,
further work is needed to better understand the causes of the
lymphopenia and its correlation with outcome.
