### Title 

**Mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 reveals inflammatory role of type I
interferon signaling**

Benjamin Israelow et al. *preprint server*
doi.org/10.1101/2020.05.27.118893

#### Keywords

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   adeno associated virus

-   human ACE2 transgenic mouse

#### 

#### Main Findings

#### The manuscript describes a versatile mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 based on adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated expression of hACE2. The AAV-hACE2 model supported productive SARS-CoV-2 infection in the lung of mice, inducing leukocyte recruitment and mounting antibody response (IgG) against the spike (S) protein, showing neutralization capacity within 4 and 7 days of infection. RNA sequencing analysis-data reveal signatures of cytokines and interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) with up-regulation compared with control. Neither type I nor type II, nor type III interferons were up-regulated, indicating a resemblance with published data from the lungs of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 (Blanco-Melo et al., 2020). Further exploration of type I interferon signaling, either interferon-alpha receptor IFNAR-/- and IRF3/7-/- interferon regulatory transcription factor 3/7 knout out mice were transduced with AAV-hACE2 and infected with SARS-CoV-2. The results exhibited that despite similar kinetics of viral clearance with AAV-hACE2 model, it was a decrease in ISG response, suggesting that viral SARS-Cov-2 replication is resistant to interferon signaling. The authors concluded the AAV-hACE2 infected SARS-CoV-2 model largely recapitulated the transcriptome changes observed in the lungs of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients.

#### Limitations

The results displayed by the authors suggest the hACE2-AAV mouse model
infected with SARS-CoV-2 generates symptoms that partly resembled human
infection symptoms; however, neither express real tissue tropism of
SARS-CoV-2 in infected mice or different susceptibility with the
infection based on gender or age.  Additionally, because no dead mice
were reported, the model does not fully reflect the pathogenesis of
SARS-CoV-2 as in other transgenic models. Future studies should figure
out the persisting time of virus in infected mice based on strain,
gender, and age.

#### Significance

#### The hACE2-AAV mouse model partially simulated the pathology of COVID-19 with a focused and robust lung SARS-CoV-2 infection. The hACE2-AAV mouse model would allow test the patient-SARS-CoV-2 derived-virus in mice of diverse genetic backgrounds as a platform to study therapeutic strategies to combat COVID-19 disease.

#### 

#### Credit

*Reviewed by Martinez-Delgado, G as part of a project by students,
postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of
Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
