> Validated by: Robert M Samstein
>
> The SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain elicits a potent neutralizing
> response without antibody-dependent enhancement
>
> Quinlan et al **doi:** https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.10.036418
>
> <https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.10.036418v1>
>
> *Keywords:* antibody-dependent enhancement, ACE2, RBD-based vaccine.
>
> [[]{#OLE_LINK5 .anchor}]{#OLE_LINK4 .anchor}*Main findings:* ***The
> author’s data suggest that a receptor-binding domain-based (RBD)
> vaccine for SARS-Cov2 could be safe and effective***. Similar to
> SARS-CoV-1, SARS-CoV-2 requires expression of the cellular receptor
> angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) to infect cells. The spike (S)
> protein mediates entry of CoV-2 engages ACE2 through its
> receptor-binding domain (RBD), an independently folded 197-amino acid
> fragment of the 1273-amino acid S-protein promoter.
>
> The authors immunized mice using RBD fusion protein, mixed with
> adjuvant. Blood were collected at day 0(before injection), day 5 and
> day10 and analyzed neutralization of viral entry. The data suggested
> that antibodies to the RBD domain of SARS-CoV-1 potently neutralize
> SARS-CoV-1 S-protein-mediated entry in rat, and the presence of
> anti-RBD antibodies correlates with neutralization in SARS-CoV-2
> convalescent sera.
>
> Antibody dependent enhancement (ADE) can contribute to the
> pathogenicity of viral infection a major concern observed with other
> viruses but not with SARS-Cov-2 to date*.* Importantly, **the
> RBD-elicited antibodies may mediate ADE less efficiently than those
> recognizing other neutralizing S-protein epitopes**. Furthermore,
> anti-RBD anti-serum did not promote ADE at serum dilutions and under a
> condition in which is the **ZIKV ADE could be observed.**
>
> Relevance: The study highlights a potential strategy for SARS-CoV-2
> vaccine, using RBD protein to promote neutralization and protection.
> The work demonstrated limited evidence of ADE, that has been shown to
> contribute to pathogenesis in zika and dengue.
>
> Limitation: Data show that the RBD alone is sufficient to elicit a
> potent neutralizing antibody response. It remains to be determined
> whether trimer-based vaccines, or trimer/RBD combinations, can be more
> effective, and whether they carry additional safety concerns.
>
> [[]{#OLE_LINK2 .anchor}]{#OLE_LINK1 .anchor}**Credit:**
>
> *Reviewed by Zafar Mahmood as part of a project by students, postdocs
> and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of
> Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
