### Human Kidney is a Target for Novel Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) Infection

[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.04.20031120]

#### Keywords

- Kidney/Renal Failure
- Macrophage Infiltration
- Complement Activation

#### Main Finding

Analyzing the eGFR (effective glomerular flow rate) of 85 Covid-19
patients and characterizing tissue damage and viral presence in
post-mortem kidney samples from 6 Covid-19 patients, the authors
conclude that significant damage occurs to the kidney, following
Covid-19 infection. This is in contrast to the SARS infection from the
2003 outbreak. They determine this damage to be more prevalent in
patients older than 60 years old, as determined by analysis of eGFR. H&E
and IHC analysis in 6 Covid-19 patients revealed that damage was in the
tubules, not the glomeruli of the kidneys and suggested that macrophage
accumulation and C5b-9 deposition are key to this process. 

#### Limitations

Severe limitations include that the H&E and IHC samples were performed
on post-mortem samples of unknown age, thus we cannot assess how/if age
correlates with kidney damage, upon Covid-19 infection. Additionally,
eGFR was the only *in-vivo* measurement. Blood urea nitrogen and
proteinuria are amongst other measurements that could have been obtained
from patient records. An immune panel of the blood was not performed to
assess immune system activation. Additionally, patients are only from
one hospital. 

#### Significance

This report makes clear that kidney damage is prevalent
in Covid-19 patients and should be accounted for. 

#### Credit

*Review by Dan Fu Ruan, Evan Cody and Venu Pothula as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.*
