**Outbreak of Kawasaki disease in children during COVID-19 pandemic: a
prospective observational study in Paris, France**

Julie Toubiana et al. *medRxiv* \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.05.10.20097394\]

#### Keywords

-   Kawasaki disease

-   COVID-19

-   Myocarditis

#### Main Findings

An unusually high incidence of Kawasaki disease was reported in a
pediatric center for infectious diseases in France. This is a rare
post-viral vasculitis that was been associated with several viruses in
the past, including coronaviruses. The authors reported 17 cases over a
period of 11 days, in contrast to a mean of 1 case per 2-week period in
2018-2019.

Polymorphous skin rash and bulbar conjunctival injection were the most
frequent criteria for diagnosis of Kawasaki disease. The patients had a
median age of 7.5 years (range 3-16); 65% (n=11) presented with shock
syndrome, and 70% of the patients (n=12) had concomitant myocarditis.
All patients had high inflammatory parameters, including leukocytosis
with a predominance of neutrophils, and high levels of C-reactive
protein, procalcitonin and interleukin-6. Compared to past descriptions
of Kawasaki disease, this cohort had an 8-fold increase in procalcitonin
level, what suggests a particularly strong post-viral immunological
reaction to SARS-CoV-2 as compared with other viral agents.

Remarkably, although the study was conducted in France, 59% of the
patients were originally from sub-Saharan Africa or Caribbean islands,
and 12% from Asia, pinpointing a possible genetic predisposition or a
travel-associated exposure.

In 82% of the cases, IgG antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 were detected,
suggestion an association with coronavirus disesase 2019 (COVID-19).
RT-PCR testing for SARS-CoV-2 was positive in 41% of the patients.
Although only 6 patients had recent history of an acute respiratory
infection, in 9 cases there was history of recent contact with family
members displaying respiratory symptoms. However, all patients had
gastrointestinal symptoms prior to the onset of Kawasaki disease signs.

All patients were treated with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and
aspirin. Some received concomitant corticosteroids (n=3) and/or
broad-spectrum antibiotics (n=14). Admission to intensive care unit
(ICU) was necessary in 13 cases. A total of 5 patients had IVIG
resistance. Regarding the outcome, 5 patients had not yet been
discharged by the time the manuscript was published.

#### Limitations

This was a single-center study with a very short follow-up period of 11
days. The information about the total number of paediatric patients that
tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in this center/region during the reported
period is missing. That could help to draw conclusions about the
incidence of Kawasaki disease-like inflammatory syndromes in children
after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Additional to the genetic predisposition
hypothesis, information about potential travel-associated exposures
should be discussed in the manuscript due to the apparent difference in
incidence between racial groups. Furthermore, although the prevalence of
COVID-19 in Europe is currently very high, an association between
SARS-CoV-2 and the reported outbreak of Kawasaki disease needs further
studies to determine causality.

#### Significance

The temporal association between the COVID-19 pandemic and the results
of RT-PCR and antibody testing suggest a causal link between Kawasaki
disease and COVID-19. At the time of this writing, while this is not the
first description of Kawasaki disease-like inflammatory syndromes in
association with COVID-19, it is the largest published cohort. Kawasaki
disease should be evaluated as part of the spectrum of post-viral
immunological reactions in COVID-19 convalescent children. These
findings should prompt a high degree of vigilance among all physicians,
and preparedness in countries with a high proportion of children of
African and Asian ancestry during the COVID-19 pandemic. The World
Health Organization (WHO) has recently developed a case report form and
encouraged physicians to report all suspected cases.

#### Credit

*Reviewed by Alvaro Moreira, MD as part of a project by students,
postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of
Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
