**SARS-CoV-2 infection of the placenta**

Hosier et al.; medRxiv \[10.1101/2020.04.30.20083907\]

*Keywords*

-   COVID-19

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   pregnancy

-   placenta

-   syncytiotrophoblast

-   inflammation

*Main findings*

The impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection and subsequent COVID-19 disease in
pregnant women at different trimesters is not well described. The
precise influence of a potentially dysregulated antiviral response to
this pathogen during pregnancy is unclear, so a better understanding
would guide management for pregnant women, who may be more susceptible
to infection. Here, Hosier et al. profile a case of a woman with
COVID-19 in the second trimester of pregnancy with severe hypertension,
elevated liver enzymes, and coagulopathy. These symptoms led to a
diagnosis of severe preeclampsia.

The patient initially presented with a high fever, non-productive cough,
nausea, diarrhea, diffuse myalgias, anorexia, and malaise. A RT-PCR test
for SARS-CoV-2 RNA in a nasopharyngeal swab of the patient was positive.
Upon admission, the patient was treated for hypertension, disseminated
intravascular coagulopathy, and she eventually elected to terminate via
dilation and evacuation. During surgical management and recovery, the
patient developed lymphopenia, though she was able to be extubated and
weaned to room air on post-operative day 1. The patient was given
hydroxychloroquine. Two days later, her coagulation markers improved,
and she was discharged.

**RT-PCR and sequencing and phylogenetic analyses** showed that the
placenta and umbilical cord were positive for SARS-CoV-2 RNA, but no
other major fetal tissues tested positive. Saliva and urine, collected
from the patient, also tested positive, although the oral and nasal
swabs did not. Whole genome sequencing of the viral genome isolated from
the placenta was phylogenetically similar to those isolated from local
cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection and those identified in Europe and
Australia.

**Serologic testing** for patients' antibodies revealed high titers of
anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG and IgM antibodies. These levels were reportedly the
highest of the 56 COVID-19 patients admitted to the Yale New Haven
Hospital, suggesting that the patient was not unsuccessful in eliciting
a humoral response.

**Gross pathological examination** revealed a marginally adherent blood
clot, presenting as a focal placental infarct, while histological
analyses using CD3 and CD68 as markers revealed an infiltration of T
cells and macrophages, which suggests that fibrin-dense intervillositis
may have contributed to the coagulopathy observed in the patient. No
necrotic tissue was seen. Immunohistochemistry staining for the
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and *in situ* hybridization for the SARS-CoV-2
RNA revealed that the infection of fetal tissue was localized
preferentially to the syncytiotrophoblasts of the placenta.

**Electron microscopy** confirmed the presence of viral particles
(75-100 nm in diameter) in the cytosol of placental cells.

*Limitations*

*Technical*

This report profiles a single patient to describe the impact of COVID-19
in pregnant women. Without a larger sample size, it is difficult to
assess, however, how infection or peak disease at a given trimester
differentially influence prognosis and clinical outcome. It is also
important to note that this patient was diagnosed with an underlying
autoimmune disease, psoriasis. It will also be important for future
studies to consider the stage of pregnancy and whether COVID infection
leads to other pregnancy-related disorders, such as recurring
miscarriage, fetal growth restriction and possibly even increase in size
of fetus creating challenges for delivery.

*Biological*

Finally, it is unclear whether these placental cells express the ACE2
receptor. Though electron microscopy, among other methods, identified
viral particles in placental cells and indicated SARS-CoV-2 infection of
the placenta, the authors did not demonstrate that the
syncytiotrophoblasts expressed the ACE2 receptor, which has been shown
to be the target of SARS-CoV-2 viral entry into host cells.

*Additional considerations*

The immunology of pregnancy is not static - the myeloid and T cell
repertoire of the placental micro-environment is dynamic throughout the
different trimesters. For instance, during the first trimester,
trophoblastic cells secrete cytokines and chemokines that promote the
recruitment and infiltration of circulating monocytes, neutrophils, NK
cells, and T cells^1,2^. This trafficking is essential, and disruption
of any elements of this signaling axis results in poor pregnancy
outcomes^1^. Notably, NK cells and monocyte-derived macrophages are
responsible for decidual vascular and tissue remodeling^1,2^.

The second trimester, however, is described as an anti-inflammatory
stage, characterized by the induction of regulatory T cells by decidual
CD56^bright^CD16^-^ NK cells and monocyte-derived macrophages.
Interestingly, a population of T~H~17 cells are also present and expand
during the second trimester^1^. The third trimester is then marked by a
return to an inflammatory phenotype^1^. It is unclear how these
differential states are influenced by an antiviral response to
SARS-CoV-2 infection. The authors reported the presence of macrophages
and T cells, but a lack of more specific stains and analyses make it
difficult to precisely characterize the immunological anomalies of the
placental micro-environment in pregnant women with COVID-19. The role of
decidual NK cells is likely to be especially important, given their role
in trophoblast-mediated immune modulation during the different
trimesters of pregnancy and their role in the antiviral response to
viral infections.

*Significance*

Hypertensive disorders, like preeclampsia, in pregnant women increase
the likelihood for complicated pregnancies, and recent studies of the
field suggest that dysregulated immune activity may partially be
responsible for these outcomes. The trimesters of pregnancy exhibit
different immune landscapes, so the presence of certain microbes,
including viral pathogens, is likely to perturb homeostatic immune
processes that are required for a normal pregnancy. The impact of
SARS-CoV-2 infection, therefore, warrants its own investigation, as the
health outcomes of COVID-19 are especially poor. The authors report
direct infection of the syncytiotrophoblast by SARS-CoV-2. These cells
are derived from trophoblasts, which play an important immuno-modulatory
role in all three trimesters of pregnancy. So, collectively, given the
role of the ACE2 receptor as the target of SARS-CoV-2 viral entry and
the involvement of ACE2 in the physiology of preeclampsia, the two
pathologies likely share altered immune states and a dysfunctional
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) as etiologies.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai. *

**References**

1 Mor, G., Aldo, P., & Alvero, A.B. The unique immunological and
microbial aspects of pregnancy.

*Nat. Rev. Immunol.* 17, 469-482 (2020).

2 Yockey, L.J., Lucas, C., & Iwasaki, A. Contributions of maternal and
fetal antiviral immunity in

congenital disease. *Science*. 368, 608-612 (2020).
