**Title: **

**Susceptibility of ferrets, cats, dogs and different domestic animals
to SARS-coronavirus-2**

**Immunology keywords:** SARS-CoV-2, ferret, cat, laboratory animal,
domestic animals

**The main finding of the article: **

This study evaluated the susceptibility of different model laboratory
animals (ferrets), as well as companion (cats and dogs), and domestic
animals (pigs, chickens and ducks) to SARS-CoV-2. They tested infection
with two SARS-CoV2 isolates, one from an environmental sample collected
in the Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan (F13-E) and the other from a human
patient in Wuhan (CTan-H).

*Ferrets* were inoculated with either of the two viruses by intranasal
route with 10^5^ pfu, and the viral replication was evaluated. Two
ferrets from each group were euthanized on day 4 post infection (p.i.).
AT day 4 p.i., viral RNA and infectious viruses were detected only in
upper respiratory tract (nasal turbinate, upper palate, tonisls, but not
in the trachea, lungs or other tissues. Viral RNA and virus titer in the
remaining ferrets were monitored in nasal washes and rectal swabs on
days 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 p.i. Viral RNA and infectious viruses were
detected in nasal washes until day 8 p.i. One ferret in each group
developed fever and loss of appetite on days 10 and 12 p.i., however,
viral RNA was practically undetactable. These two ferrets showed severe
lymphoplasmacytic perivasculitis and vasculitis in the lungs and lower
antibody titers compare to other 4 ferrets.

*Cats*. Five *s*ubadult 8-month-old domestic cats were inoculated with
CTan-h virus and three uninfected cats were placed in a cage adjacent to
each of the infected cats to monitor respiratory droplet transmission.
Viral RNA was detected in the upper respiratory organs from all infected
cats and in one out of three exposed cats. All infected (inoculated and
exposed) cats developed elevated antibodies against SARS-CoV2. Viral
replication studies with juvenile cats (70-100 days) revealed massive
lesions in the nasal and tracheal mucosa epithelium and lungs of two
inoculated cats which died or were euthanized on day 3 p.i., and
infection in one out of three exposed cats. These results indicated
SARS-CoV2 could replicate in cats, that juvenile cats were more
susceptible that adults, and theat SARS-CoV2 could be transmit via
respiratory droplets between cats.

*Dogs and others.* Five 3-month-old beagle dogs were inoculated and
housed with two uninoculated beagles in a room. Two virus inoculated
dogs seroconverted, but others including two contact dogs were all
seronegative for SARS-CoV2 and infectious virus was not detected in any
swabs collected. Viral RNA was not detected in swabs from pigs,
chickens, and ducks inoculated or contacted. These results indicated
that dogs, pigs, chickens, and ducks might have low or no susceptibility
to SARS-CoV2.

**Critical analysis of the study:**

This manuscript describes the viral replication and clinical symptoms of
SARS-CoV2 infection in ferrets, and the SARS-CoV2 infection and
transmission in cats. Clinical and pathological analysis was not
performed in cats, therefore the correlation of virus titer with
symptoms severity in the adult and juvenile cats could not be
determined.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics:**

SARS-CoV-2 transmission to tigers, cats and dogs has been previously
reported. It should be noted that this manuscript did not evaluate the
transmission from cats to human. Nevertheless, it clearly showed higher
susceptibility of ferrets and domestic cats to SARS-CoV-2. This data
strongly indicates the need for surveillance of possible infection and
transmission of SARS-CoV-2 by domestic cats.
