### SARS-CoV-2 launches a unique transcriptional signature from in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo systems

Blanco-Melo et al. *bioRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.24.004655]

#### Keywords

- host cellular response
- host-pathogen interaction
- type I interferon
- type III interferon
- inflammation
- RNA-seq
- comparative analysis

#### Main Findings

Given the high mortality rate of SARS-CoV-2 relative to
other respiratory viruses such seasonal IAV and RSV, there may be
underlying host-pathogen interactions specific to SARS-CoV-2 that
predispose to a worse clinical outcome. Using *in vivo*, *ex vivo*, and
*in vitro* systems, the authors profiled host cell transcriptional
responses to SARS-CoV-2 and to other common respiratory viruses
(seasonal IAV and RSV). SARS-CoV-2 infection *in vitro* led to an
induction of type I interferon response signaling and the upregulation
of cytokine/chemokines transcripts. In comparison with IAV and RSV
infection, SARS-CoV-2 *in vitro* appears to uniquely induce less type I
and type III interferon expression and higher levels of two cytokines
previously implicated in respiratory inflammation. Lastly, *in vivo*
data from ferrets showed a reduced induction of cytokines and chemokines
by SARS-CoV-2 infection relative to IAV infection.

#### Limitations

While these results are promising, there are several
key weaknesses of this paper. 1) As the authors point out, there is an
undetectable level of SARS-CoV-2 putative receptor (ACE2) and protease
(TMPRSS2) expression in the lung epithelial cell line used for the *in
vitro* studies. This raises the important question of whether viral
replication actually occurs in any of the models used, which may explain
the lack of interferon production observed *in vitro* in SARS-CoV-2
treated cells. Further studies characterizing viral titers across
timepoints are needed. 2) Furthermore, these studies only characterize
the host response at a single dose and timepoint per virus, and it is
unclear why these doses/timepoints were chosen. This leaves open the
possibility that the observed differences between viruses could be due
to differences in dose, timing, host response, or a combination of all
of these. 3) It is unclear whether ferrets are productively infected,
which cell types are infected, and the extent/timing of the clinical
course of infection. Moreover, the *in vitro* and *in vivo* data do not
strongly correlate and the reasons for this are unclear.

#### Significance

This paper describes potentially unique
transcriptional signatures of host cells exposed to SARS-CoV-2. If
validated, these findings may help explain clinical outcomes and could
be targeted in future therapeutic interventions.

#### Potential Conflicts of Interest Disclosure

The reviewers are also researchers at the Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
