**Clinical Characteristics of 25 death cases infected with COVID-19
pneumonia: a retrospective review of medical records in a single medical
center, Wuhan, China**

DOI: 10.1101/2020.02.19.20025239

Keywords: COVID-19, pneumonia, hypertension, diabetes, biomarker,
neutrophilia, lymphopenia

Summary: Most common chronic conditions among 25 patients that died from
COVID-19 related respiratory failure were hypertension (64%) and
diabetes (40%). Disease progression was marked by progressive organ
failure, starting first with lung dysfunction, then heart (e.g.
increased cTnI and pro-BNP), followed by kidney (e.g. increased BUN,
Cr), and liver (e.g. ALT, AST). 72% of patients had neutrophilia and 88%
also had lymphopenia. General markers of inflammation were also
increased (e.g. PCT, D-Dimer, CRP, LDH, and SAA).

Limitations: The limitations of this study include small sample size and
lack of measurements for some tests for several patients. This study
would also have been stronger with comparison of the same measurements
to patients suffering from less severe disease to further validate and
correlate proposed biomarkers with disease severity.

Importance: This study identifies chronic conditions (i.e. hypertension
and diabetes) that strongly correlates with disease severity. In
addition to general markers of inflammation, the authors also identify
concomitant neutrophilia and lymphopenia among their cohort of patients.
This is a potentially interesting immunological finding because we would
typically expect increased lymphocytes during a viral infection.
Neutrophilia may also be contributing to cytokine storm. In addition,
PCT was elevated in 90.5% of patients, suggesting a role for sepsis or
secondary bacterial infection in COVID-19 related respiratory failure.
