### The comparative superiority of IgM-IgG antibody test to real-time reverse transcriptase PCR detection for SARS-CoV-2 infection diagnosis

Liu et al. *medRxiv*.
[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.28.20045765]

#### Keywords

- IgM/IgG antibody test
- nucleic acid test
- SARS-CoV-2 detection

#### Main Findings

The study compares IgM and IgG antibody testing to RT-PCR detection of
SARS-CoV-2 infection. 133 patients diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 in Renmin
Hospital (Wuhan University, China) were analyzed. The positive ratio was
78.95% (105/133) in IgM antibody test (SARS-CoV-2 antibody detection kit
from YHLO Biotech) and 68.42% (91/133) in RT-PCR (SARS-CoV-2 ORF1ab/N
qPCR detection kit). There were no differences in the sensitivity of
SARS-CO-V2 diagnosis in patients grouped according to disease severity.
For example, IgG responses were detected in 93.18% of moderate cases,
100% of severe cases and 97.3% of critical cases. In sum, positive
ratios were higher in antibody testing compared to RT-PCR detection,
demonstrating a higher detection sensitivity of IgM-IgG testing for
patients hospitalized with COVID-19 symptoms.

#### Limitations

This analysis only included one-time point of 133 hospitalized patients,
and the time from symptom onset was not described. There was no
discussion about specificity of the tests and no healthy controls were
included. It would be important to perform similar studies with more
patients, including younger age groups and patients with mild symptoms
as well as asymptomatic individuals. It is critical to determine how
early after infection/symptom onset antibodies can be detected and the
duration of this immune response.

#### Significance

The IgM-IgG combined testing is important to improve clinical
sensitivity and diagnose COVID-19 patients. The combined antibody test
shows higher sensitivity than individual IgM and IgG tests or nucleic
acid-based methods, at least in patients hospitalized with symptoms.

#### Credit

*Review by Erica Dalla as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
