### Serology characteristics of SARS-CoV-2 infection since the exposure and post symptoms onset

Lou et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.23.20041707]

#### Keywords

- Seroconversion rate
- Total Antibody
- Ab
- IgG and IgM
- antibody

#### Main Findings

Currently, the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection
entirely depends on the detection of viral RNA using polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) assays. False negative results are common, particularly
when the samples are collected from upper respiratory. Serological
detection may be useful as an additional testing strategy. In this study
the authors reported that a typical acute antibody response was induced
during the SARS-CoV-2 infection, which was discuss earlier^1^. The
seroconversion rate for Ab, IgM and IgG in COVID-19 patients was 98.8%
(79/80), 93.8% (75/80) and 93.8% (75/80), respectively. The first
detectible serology marker was total antibody followed by IgM and IgG,
with a median seroconversion time of 15, 18 and 20 days-post exposure
(d.p.e) or 9, 10- and 12-days post-onset (d.p.o). Seroconversion was
first detected at day 7d.p.e in 98.9% of the patients. Interestingly
they found that viral load declined as antibody levels increased. This
was in contrast to a previous study [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.02.20030189], showing that increased antibody
titers did not always correlate with RNA clearance (low number of
patient sample).

#### Limitations

Current knowledge of the antibody response to SAR-CoV-2
infection and its mechanism is not yet well elucidated. Similar to the
RNA test, the absence of antibody titers in the early stage of illness
could not exclude the possibility of infection. A diagnostic test, which
is the aim of the authors, would not be useful at the early time points
of infection but it could be used to screen asymptomatic patients or
patients with mild disease at later times after exposure.

#### Significance

Understanding the antibody responses against SARS-CoV2 is
useful in the development of a serological test for the diagnosis of
COVID-19. This manuscript discussed acute antibody responses which can
be deducted in plasma for diagnostic as well as prognostic purposes.
Thus, patient-derived plasma with known antibody titers may be used
therapeutically for treating COVID-19 patients with severe illness.
[[]{#OLE_LINK4 .anchor}]{#OLE_LINK3 .anchor}

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken and edited by Konstantina A as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
