**Correlation Analysis Between Disease Severity and Inflammation-related
Parameters in Patients with COVID-19 Pneumonia**

**doi:** <https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.25.20025643>

Key words: cytokine, COVID-19 pneumonia, severity, disease progression,

Summary: This study is a cross-sectional analysis of 100 patients with
COVID-19 pneumonia, divided into mild (n = 34), severe (n = 34), and
critical (n = 32) disease status based on clinical definitions.

The criteria used to define disease severity are as follows:

1.  *Severe* – any of the following: respiratory distress or respiratory
    rate ≥ 30 respirations/minute; oxygen saturation ≤ 93% at rest;
    oxygen partial pressure (PaO2)/oxygen concentration (FiO2) in
    arterial blood ≤ 300mmHg, progression of disease on imaging
    to &gt;50% lung involvement in the short term.

2.  *Critical* – any of the following: respiratory failure that requires
    mechanical ventilation; shock; other organ failure that requires
    treatment in the ICU.

3.  Patients with pneumonia who test positive for COVID-19 who do not
    have the symptoms delineated above are considered *mild*.

Peripheral blood inflammatory markers were correlated to disease status.
Disease severity was significantly associated with levels of IL-2R,
IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNF-α, CRP, ferroprotein, and procalcitonin. Total
WBC count, lymphocyte count, neutrophil count, and eosinophil count were
also significantly correlated with disease status. Since this is a
retrospective, cross-sectional study of clinical laboratory values,
these data may be extrapolated for clinical decision making, but without
studies of underlying cellular causes of these changes this study does
not contribute to a deeper understanding of SARS-CoV-2 interactions with
the immune system.

It is also notable that the mean age of patients in the mild group was
significantly different from the mean ages of patients designated as
severe or critical (p &lt; 0.001). The mean patient age was not
significantly different between the severe and critical groups. However,
IL-6, IL-8, procalcitonin (Table 2), CRP, ferroprotein (Figure 3A, 3B),
WBC count, and neutrophil count (Figure 4A, 4B) were all significantly
elevated in the critical group compared to severe. These data suggest
underlying differences in COVID-19 progression that is unrelated to age.

Importance: Given the inflammatory profile outlined in this study,
patients who have mild or severe COVID-19 pneumonia, who *also* have any
elevations in the inflammatory biomarkers listed above, should be
closely monitored for potential progression to critical status.

JJF
