Highly pathogenic coronavirus N protein aggravates lung injury by MASP-2-mediated complement over-activation
============================================================================================================

*Keywords:*

Nucleocapsid protein, MASP-2, complement, pneumonia

*Summary*

In this manuscript, the authors describe direct complement system
activation through the SARS-CoV-2-N-protein as a common denominator of
coronavirus-induced lung injury.

The authors refer to previous evidence on SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV in which
they showed that the nucleocapsid (N-) protein binds to a variant of
MBL-associated serine protease-2 (MASP-2) that under physiologic
conditions initiates the lectin pathway of the complement cascade. The
authors hypothesized that SARS-CoV-2 activates the complement cascade in
severely ill patients through viral N-protein-mediated dimerization and
activating auto-cleavage of MASP-2 leading to respiratory failure in
some patients.

Following confirmation of MASP-2 binding to the N protein of SARS-CoV,
MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV2, the authors demonstrate the subsequent
complement activation in vitro as measured by C4b deposition in a
complement deposition assay and enhanced phagocyte activity. Translating
these findings into an in vivo model, the authors pre-infected mice with
an adenovirus expressing SARS CoV, MERS-CoV and control virus and
challenged the animals with LPS to activate the lectin pathway. This
effect was abolished when the N-protein was truncated or anti-MASP-2
antibodies or inhibitors were used. In mice infected with SARS- or
MERS-CoV, the authors found significantly higher C4b and C4 deposits in
the lungs and showed tremendously worse survival. However, when MASP-2
knockout mice were challenged with the above-mentioned viruses, survival
was substantially better as compared to virus-infected wildtype mice.

The authors next analyzed lung tissues from deceased COVID-19 patients
and found strong IHC stainings of complement components. In the final
step, the authors applied a clinically used C5-inhibitor to two
critically ill COVID-19 patients as a part of a clinical trial. Both
patients showed clinical improvement of their severe pneumoniae.

*Critical analysis*

The question if and in how far coronaviruses are capable of activating
the complement system has been controversial so far with conflicting
data published.

However, the authors performed a thorough and convincing analysis with
well-designed in vitro an in vivo experiments showing the ability of the
nucleocapsid to activate the complement cascade through the lectin
pathway.

However, the authors performed key experiments using adenoviruses only
containing SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV but not SARS-CoV-2. While the
assumption that due to the high sequence homology in the
N-protein-binding motif and the proven binding of the SARS-CoV-2
N-protein to MASP-2 strongly suggests that the N-protein in SARS-CoV-2
also plays a major role in complement activation in vivo remains to be
proven.

*Implications of the findings in the context of current epidemics*

Anti-inflammatory treatment in patients with severe viral pneumonia is
established as a clinical standard procedure. However, most
pathophysiologic aspects of immune hyperreactivity in these patients
remains unclear. The study reviewed here shows one mechanism by which
coronaviruses activate the complement cascade causing or at least
aggravating inflammation in the lung. Showing the successful treatment
of two patients with a complement C5 inhibitor should not be overrated
since these patients are enrolled in an ongoing clinical trial assessing
the significance of complement C5 inhibition in severely ill COVID-19
patients.

*Additional resources used:*

doi: 10.1038/emi.2015.28. Epub 2015 May 6.

doi: 10.1128/mBio.01753-18
