***Title:*** Prediction and Evolution of B Cell Epitopes of Surface
Protein in SARS-CoV-2

***Keywords:*** SARS-CoV-2; Epitopes; Bioinformatics; Evolution

***Summary/Main findings: ***

Lon et al. used a bioinformatic analysis of the published SARS-CoV-2
genomes in order to identify conserved linear and conformational B cell
epitopes found on the spike (S), envelope (E), and membrane (M)
proteins. The characterization of the surface proteins in this study
began with an assessment of the peptide sequences in order to identify
hydrophilicity indices and protein instability indices using the
Port-Param tool in ExPASy. All three surface proteins were calculated to
have an instability score under 40 indicating that they were stable.
Linear epitopes were identified on the basis of surface probability and
antigenicity, excluding regions of glycosylation. Using BepiPred 2.0
(with a cutoff value of 0.35) and ABCpred (with a cutoff value of 0.51),
4 linear B cell epitopes were predicted for the S protein, 1 epitope for
the E protein, and 1 epitope for the M protein. For structural analysis,
SARS-CoV assemblies published in the Protein Data Bank (PDB) acting as
scaffolds for the SARS-CoV-2 S and E amino acid sequences were used for
input into the SWISS-MODEL server in order to generate three-dimensional
structural models for the assessment of conformational epitopes. Using
Ellipro (cutoff value of 0.063) and SEPPA (cutoff value of 0.5), 1
conformational epitope was identified for the S protein and 1 epitope
was identified for the E protein, both of which are accessible on the
surface of the virus. Finally, the Consurf Server was used to assess the
conservation of these epitopes. All epitopes were conserved across the
published SARS-CoV-2 genomes and one epitope of the spike protein was
predicted to be the most stable across coronavirus phylogeny.

***Critical Analysis/Limitations:***

While this study provides a preliminary identification of potential
linear and conformational B cell epitopes, the translational value of
the epitopes described still needs extensive experimental validation to
ascertain whether these elicit a humoral immune response. The
conformational epitope analyses are also limited by the fact that they
are based off of predicted 3D structure from homology comparisons and
not direct crystal structures of the proteins themselves. Additionally,
since there was not a published M protein with a high homology to
SARS-CoV-2, no conformational epitopes were assessed for this protein.
Finally, while evolutionary conservation is an important consideration
in understanding the biology of the virus, conservation does not
necessarily imply that these sites neutralize the virus or aid in
non-neutralizing *in vivo* protection.

***Relevance/Implications:***

With further experimental validation that confirms that these epitopes
induce effective antibody responses to the virus, the epitopes described
can be used for the development of treatments and vaccines as well as
better characterize the viral structure to more deeply understand
pathogenesis.
