### SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV Spike-RBD Structure and Receptor Binding Comparison and Potential Implications on Neutralizing Antibody and Vaccine Development

Sun et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.16.951723]

#### Keywords

- SARS-CoV
- SARS-CoV-2
- ACE2
- Spike (S) protein
- receptor binding domain (RBD)
- receptor binding motif (RBM)
- neutralizing antibody

#### Main Findings

This study compared the structure of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S)
protein receptor binding domain (RBD) and interactions with ACE2 using
computational modeling, and interrogated cross-reactivity and
cross-neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 by antibodies against SARS-CoV. While
SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 have over 70 % sequence homology and share the
same human receptor ACE2, the receptor binding motif (RBM) is only 50%
homologous.

Computational prediction of the SARS-CoV-2 and ACE2 interactions based
on the previous crystal structure data of SARS-CoV, and measurement of
binding affinities against human ACE2 using recombinant SARS-CoV and
SARS-CoV-2 S1 peptides, demonstrated similar binding of the two S1
peptides to ACE2, explaining the similar transmissibility of SARS-CoV
and SARS-CoV-2 and consistent with previous data (Wall et al Cell
2020).

The neutralization activity of SARS-CoV-specific rabbit polyclonal
antibodies were about two-order of magnitude less efficient to
neutralize SARS-CoV-2 than SARS-CoV, and four potently neutralizing
monoclonal antibodies against SARS-CoV had poor binding and neutralizing
activity against SARS-CoV-2. In contrast, 3 poor SARS-CoV-binding
monoclonal antibodies show some efficiency to bind and neutralize
SARS-CoV-2. The results suggest that antibodies to more conserved
regions outside the RBM motif might possess better cross-protective
neutralizing activities between two strains.

#### Limitations

It would have been helpful to show the epitopes recognized by the
monoclonal antibodies tested on both SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2 to be able to
make predictions for induction of broadly neutralizing antibodies. The
data on monoclonal antibody competition with ACE2 for binding to
SARS-CoV RBD should have also included binding on SARS-CoV2, especially
for the three monoclonal antibodies that showed neutralization activity
for SARS-CoV2. Because of the less homology in RBM sequences between
viruses, it still may be possible that these antibodies would recognize
the ACE2 RBD in SARS-CoV-2.

#### Significance

It is noteworthy that immunization to mice and rabbit with SARS-CoV S1
or RBD protein could induce monoclonal antibodies to cross-bind and
cross-neutralize SARS-CoV-2 even if they are not ACE2-blocking. If these
types of antibodies could be found in human survivors or in the
asymptomatic populations as well, it might suggest that exposure to
previous Coronavirus strains could have induced cross-neutralizing
antibodies and resulted in the protection from severe symptoms in some
cases of SARS-CoV2.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
