**Long period dynamics of viral load and antibodies for SARS-CoV-2
infection: an observational cohort study**

Huang et al. *medRxiv* \[@doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.22.20071258\]

#### *Keywords*

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   Specific IgM and IgG

-   Viral load

#### *Main Findings*

[]{#limitations .anchor}The presence of serum IgM and IgG against
SARS-CoV2 has been shown in several studies, however, a limited number
of studies have shown the longitudinal relationship between viral RNA
levels and antibody titers. This retrospective, observational study
evaluated the dynamics of viral RNA, IgM and IgG specific for SARS-CoV2
proteins in patients with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia over an 8-week
period.

Throat swabs, sputum, stool and blood samples from 33 patients with
laboratory confirmed SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia were collected to analyze
viral load and specific IgM and IgG against spike protein (S), spike
protein receptor binding domain (RBD), and nucleocapsid (N). The
demographics of the patients showed that 24 had respiratory symptom, two
had symptoms in both the respiratory and the gastrointestinal tracts,
one had gastrointestinal symptoms and six were asymptomatic. Chest CT
revealed 27 patients had bilateral infiltrates and six had unilateral
infiltrates. All the patients received antiviral treatment and atomized
interferon during hospitalization.

While viral load in throat swabs and sputum was higher at the symptom
onset and undetectable by three weeks and five weeks respectively, viral
load in stool started low but remained detectable for more than five
weeks in many patients. The viral loads in sputum declined significantly
slower compare to throat, so that the patients were divided into two
groups based on load in sputum: short-persistence (viral RNA
undetectable within 22 days, n=17) and long-persistence (viral RNA
persists more than 22 days, n=16). The relationship between the
persistence of sputum viral RNA and antibodies showed that
short-persistence group had higher anti-S IgM, anti-RBD IgM and anti-RBD
IgG levels compare to long-persistence group suggesting a potential
protection by anti-RBD antibodies. The length of time from symptom onset
to hospital admission was also associated with SARS-CoV-2 viral
clearance. In addition, the higher seropositive rate for anti-S and
anti-RBD IgM was seen in long-persistence patients. They suggest that
delayed admission to the hospital resulted in higher seropositive and
longer infection in patients with COVID-19.

#### *Limitations* {#limitations-1}

The separation of ‘low persistence’ vs ‘high persistence’ groups seems
quite arbitrary, as only virus RNA levels for in sputum were considered,
and viral loads in throat swabs and stool were not considered (these
were no significant difference between the low vs high groups. The
manuscript needs better and more detailed description of methods and
figure legends. The same color codes for each patient could be used in
figure 1, so that the readers could see if there was a trend in viral
load between specimens in a same patient, and graphics for each patient
will be useful to understand viral dinamics in the three types of
samples for each person. The graphs on figure 5 seemed to correspond to
one time point data, but there was no explanation which time point was
used. In the results section, it was not clear which figures or tables
were related to the text. The correlation between severity, viral load
and persistency, and antibody titers could be analyzed.

#### *Significance*

#### It is important to understand the relationship between viral loads, disease progression and viral-specific antibodies in COVID-19 disease. More studies are necessary.

#### *Credit*

*Reviewed by Miyo Ota as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
