**Title:** OpenSAFELY: factors associated with COVID-19-related hospital
death in the linked electronic health records of 17 million adult NHS
patients

OpenSAFELY Collaborative *et al.* \[medRxiv, @doi:
10.1101/2020.05.06.20092999\]

**Key words:** risk factors, ethnicity, electronic health records

**Main Findings:**

During the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, identifying patients at high
risk for mortality is critical so as to guide clinical decisions on
early intervention and patient care. To identify factors associated with
risk of death from COVID-19, the study developed a secure and
pseudonymized analytics platform, OpenSAFELY, that links the UK National
Health Service (NHS) patient electronic health records (EHR) with
COVID-19 in-hospital death notifications. This platform enabled the
rapid analysis of by far the largest cohort to date from any country,
comprising 17,425,445 multi-ethnic adults and 5,683 COVID-19 deaths. The
analyses were based on hazard ratio generated by cox-regression and were
adjusted for demographics and co-morbidities.

Increased risk of COVID-19 hospital death was associated with male
gender, older age, certain clinical conditions (uncontrolled diabetes,
severe asthma, other respiratory diseases, history of haematological
malignancy or recent non-haematological cancer, obesity, cardiovascular
disease, kidney, liver, neurological diseases, autoimmune conditions,
organ transplant and splenectomy). Notably, the association of asthma
with higher risk of COVID-19 related death is contradictory to previous
findings of no increased risk of death or even protective association.
This effect was even stronger with recent use of oral corticosteroids
(i.e. more severe asthma). In addition, people of lower socio-economic
background (i.e. deprivation) or black and Asian origin were identified
at high risk. However, this association could not be entirely attributed
to pre-existing health conditions or other risk factors, which warrants
further exploration into drivers of these associations. The open source
analytics code is available at OpenSAFELY.org.

**Limitations:**

1\) There are few drawbacks in data source and collection. The study did
not account for COVID-19 deaths in false-negative/ untested individuals,
relied on EHR from specific software and dealt with incomplete EHR
information.

2\) Additional discussion regarding the reasons behind the associations
would be insightful. Specifically, recent studies have shown that risk
factors including asthma, hypertension, and diabetes impact the
expression of ACE2 gene, which is the entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2.
However, while asthma with type 2 inflammation has been associated with
lower ACE2 expression and thereby potentially protective effect, this
association has not been observed for nonatopic asthma in these studies.
In the current study, asthma is only categorized in terms of severity
(recent oral corticosteroid use vs not). Further categorization in terms
of subtype would have been helpful.

3\) Understanding the underlying causes of high risk in people of black
and Asian origin is important for public health and mitigation of the
spread. In this study, the most common assumptions of high burden of
underlying comorbidities and lower socio-economic status are shown to
contribute only partly to the risk. However, other factors, such as
occupational exposure, neighborhood and household-density and possible
influence of genetic or other biological factors still need to be
explored.

4\) The study suggests increased risk in former smokers and slight
protective effect in current smokers. More in-depth analyses into
whether the protective effect of current smoker status is an artifact of
over-adjustment, selection protocol of healthy controls or a true
correlation are needed.

5\) It would be helpful to have the *p*-value along with the reported
hazards ratio and 95% confidence intervals.

**Significance:**

Overall, the OpenSAFELY platform allows secure and real-time analyses of
clinical data stored *in situ*. As this global pandemic progresses,
outcomes and data are expected to expand, revealing more insights to the
effects of medical treatments and less common risk factors on COVID-19
infection, spread and death. This approach can help better identify
additional factors that affect disease severity and immune response.
Finally, this rapid and massive study was only possible because of the
detailed longitudinal data already available through General
Practitioners within the UK National Health Service (NHS), replication
of which at a similar massive scale would be daunting within the highly
fragmented healthcare system of the USA. While even within UK NHS many
data integration issues remain, the findings from this study is a
testament to the global model we need to follow to increase our power to
rapidly answer crucial questions related to COVID-19 epidemiology. Such
an approach will also open new avenues for increased understanding of
other diseases.

*Reviewed by Myvizhi Esai Selvan as part of a project by students,
postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of
Medicine, Mount Sinai*
