**Neutralizing antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 in a COVID-19 recovered
patient cohort and their implications**

Fan Wu et al.;
medRxiv 2020.03.30.20047365; doi:https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.30.20047365

***Keywords***

-   Neutralizing antibodies

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   pseudotype neutralization assay

***Main findings ***

In this study, plasma obtained from 175 convalescent patients with
laboratory-confirmed mild COVID-19 was screened for SARS-CoV-2-specific
neutralizing antibodies (nABs) by pseudotype-lentiviral-vector-based
neutralization assay as well as for binding antibodies (Abs) against
SARS-CoV-2 RBD, S1 and S2 proteins by ELISA. Kinetics of neutralizing
and binding Ab titers were assessed during the acute and convalescent
phase in the context of patient age as well as in relation to clinical
markers of inflammation (CRP and lymphocyte count at the time of
hospitalization). Across all age groups, SARS-CoV-2-specific nAbs titers
were low within the first 10 days of symptom onset, peaked between days
10-15, and persisted for at least two weeks post discharge. In contrast
to spike protein binding Abs, nAbs were not cross-reactive to
SARS-CoV-1. Moreover, nAb titers moderately correlated with the amount
of spike protein binding antibodies. Both neutralizing and binding Ab
titers varied across patient subsets of all ages, but were significantly
higher in middle-aged (40-59 yrs) and elderly (60-85) *vs*. younger
patients (15-39 yrs). However, plasma nAb titers were found to be below
detection level in 5.7% (10/175) of patients, i.e. a small number of
patients recovered without developing a robust nAb response. Conversely,
1.14% (2/175) of patients had substantially higher titers than the rest.
Notably, in addition to patient age, nAb titers correlated moderately
with serum CRP levels but were inversely related to lymphocyte count on
admission. In summary, the authors show that patients with clinically
mild COVID-19 disease mount a strong humoral response against the
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. Compared to younger patients, middle-aged and
elderly patients had both higher neutralizing and binding Ab titers,
accompanied by increased CRP levels and lower lymphocyte counts. These
patients are usually considered at higher risk of severe disease.
Therefore, robust neutralizing and binding Ab responses may be
particularly important for recovery in this patient subset. Conversely,
patients who failed to produce high nAb/binding Ab titers against spike
protein did not progress to severe disease, indicating that binding Abs
against other viral epitopes as well as cellular immune responses are
equally important.

***Limitations ***

This study provides valuable information on the kinetics of spike
protein-specific nAb as well as binding Ab titers in a cohort of
convalescent mild COVID-19 patients of all ages. However, similar
studies enrolling larger patient numbers, including those diagnosed with
moderate and severe disease as well as survivors and non-survivors,
especially in the elderly group (to rule out potential bias for more
favorable outcome), are warranted for reliable assumptions on the
potentially protective role of Abs and nAbs in COVID-19. Moreover,
longitudinal observation beyond the acute and convalescent phase in
addition to stringent clinical and immunological characterization is
urgently needed.

In their study, Wu et al. did not measure binding Abs against non-S
viral proteins, which are also induced in COVID-19 and therefore could
have added valuable diagnostic information with regard to patients who
seemingly failed to mount both binding and neutralizing Ab responses
against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. Likewise, while this study
excluded cross-reactivity of nAbs against SARS-CoV-1, no other
coronaviruses were tested. Of additional note, neutralizing activity of
plasma Abs was only assessed by pseudotype neutralization assay, not
against live SARS-CoV-2. Generally, while these are widely used and
reproducible assays, *in vitro* neutralization of pseudotyped viruses
does not necessarily translate to effective protection against the
respective live virus *in vivo* (*cf*. review by Burton, D. Antibodies,
viruses and vaccines. *Nat Rev Immunol* **2, **706–713 (2002)). Further
studies are therefore needed to assess the specificity and neutralizing
characteristics of these Abs to test whether they could be candidates
for prophylactic and therapeutic interventions. In this context, setting
arbitrary cut-off values (ID~50~ &lt;500 *vs*. detection limit o ID~50~
&lt; 40) and thus classifying up to 30% of patients in this study as
“weak” responders does not take into account our currently limited
knowledge regarding protective capacity of these nAbs and should
therefore have been avoided by the authors.

***Significance***

This preprint is arguably the first report on neutralizing and binding
Ab titers in a larger cohort of mild COVID-19 patients. Assessing Ab
titers in these patients is not only important in order to confirm
whether mild COVID-19 infection elicits robust nAb responses, but also
adds further information regarding the use of plasma from mild disease
patients for convalescent plasma therapy as well as vaccine design in
general. Future studies will need to address now whether the nAb
responses generated in mild disease will be protective or (functionally)
different from nAbs generated in moderate and severe disease. The
findings in this study are therefore of great relevance and should be
further explored in ongoing research on potential coronavirus therapies
and prevention strategies.

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.* 

 
