### The sequence of human ACE2 is suboptimal for binding the S spike protein of SARS coronavirus 2

[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.16.994236]

#### Keywords

- Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
- SARS-CoV-2
- Spike protein S
- ACE2

#### Main Findings

Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2
(SARS-CoV-2) infects cells through S spike glycoprotein binding
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE2) on host cells. S protein can bind
both membrane-bound ACE2 and soluble ACE2 (sACE2), which can serve as a
decoy that neutralizes infection. Recombinant sACE2 is now being tested
in clinical trials for COVID-19. To determine if a therapeutic sACE2
with higher affinity for S protein could be designed, authors generated
a library containing every amino acid substitution possible at the 117
sites spanning the binding interface with S protein. The ACE2 library
was expressed in human Expi293F cells and cells were incubated with
medium containing the receptor binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 fused
to GFP. Cells with high or low affinity mutant ACE2 receptor compared to
affinity of wild type ACE2 for the RBD were FACS sorted and transcripts
from these sorted populations were deep sequenced. Deep mutagenesis
identified numerous mutations in ACE2 that enhance RBD binding. This
work serves to identify putative high affinity ACE2 therapeutics for the
treatment of CoV-2.

#### Limitations

The authors generated a large library of mutated
ACE2, expressed them in human Expi293F cells, and performed deep
mutagenesis to identify enhanced binders for the RBD of SARS-CoV-2 S
protein. While these data serve as a useful resource, the ability of the
high affinity ACE2 mutants identified to serve as therapeutics needs
further validation in terms of conformational stability when purified as
well as efficacy/safety both *in vitro* and *in vivo*. Additionally,
authors mentioned fusing the therapeutic ACE2 to Fc receptors to elicit
beneficial host immune responses, which would need further design and
validation.

#### Significance

This study identified structural ACE2 mutants that
have potential to serve as therapeutics in the treatment of SARS-CoV-2
upon further testing and validation.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by Katherine Lindblad and Tamar Plitt as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
