Review of paper titled:

**Potent human neutralizing antibodies elicited 1 by SARS-CoV-2
infection**

Ju et al. 2020

Keywords: monoclonal antibodies, neutralization, antibody
cross-reactivity, Receptor Binding Domain

**Summary**

In this study the authors report the affinity, cross reactivity (with
SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV virus) and viral neutralization capacity of 206
monoclonal antibodies engineered from isolated IgG memory B cells of
patients suffering from SARS-CoV-2 infection in Wuhan, China. All
patients but one recovered from disease. Interestingly, the patient that
did not recover had less SARS-CoV-2 specific B cells circulating
compared to other patients.

Plasma from all patients reacted to trimeric Spike proteins from
SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV but no HIV BG505 trimer. Furthermore,
plasma from patients recognized the receptor binding domain (RBD) from
SARS-CoV-2 but had little to no cross-reactivity against the RBD of
related viruses SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, suggesting significant
differences between the RBDs of the different viruses. Negligible levels
of cross-neutralization using pseudoviruses bearing Spike proteins of
SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV or MERS-CoV, were observed, corroborating the ELISA
cross-reactivity assays on the RBDs.

SARS-CoV-2 RBD specific B cells constituted 0.005-0.065% of the total B
cell population and 0.023-0.329% of the memory subpopulation. SARS-CoV
specific IgG memory B cells were single cell sorted to sequence the
antibody genes that were subsequently expressed as recombinant IgG1
antibodies. From this library, 206 antibodies with different binding
capacities were obtained. No discernible patterns of VH usage were found
in the 206 antibodies suggesting immunologically distinct responses to
the infection. Nevertheless, most high-binding antibodies were derived
by clonal expansion. Further analyses in one of the patient derived
clones, showed that the antibodies from three different timepoints did
not group together in phylogenetic analysis, suggesting selection during
early infection.

Using surface plasmon resonance (SPR) 13 antibodies were found to have
10^-8^ tp 10^-9^ dissociation constants (Kd). Of the 13 antibodies, two
showed 98-99% blocking of SARS-CoV-2 RBD-ACE2 receptor binding in
competition assays. Thus, low Kd values alone did not predict ACE2
competing capacities. Consistent with competition assays the two
antibodies that show high ACE2 blocking (P2C-2F6 and P2C-1F11) were the
most capable of neutralizing pseudoviruses bearing SARS-CoV-2 spike
protein (IC~50~ of 0.06 and 0.03 µg/mL, respectively). Finally, using
SPR the neutralizing antibodies were found to recognize both overlapping
and distinct epitopes of the RBD of SARS-CoV-2.

**Caveats**

1.  Relatively low number of patients

    a.  No significant conclusion can be drawn about the possible
        > correlation between humoral response and disease severity

2.  *In vitro* Cytopathic Effect Assay (CPE) for neutralization activity

    a.  Huh7 cells were used in neutralization assays with
        > pseudoviruses, and they may not entirely mimic what happens in
        > the upper respiratory tract

    b.  CPE assay is not quantitative

3.  Duplicated panel in Figure 4C reported (has been fixed in version 2)

**Importance of findings**

[]{#_heading=h.gjdgxs .anchor}This paper offers an explanation as to why
previously isolated antibodies against SARS-CoV do not effectively block
SARS-CoV-2. Also, it offers important insight into the development of
humoral responses at various time points during the first weeks of the
disease in small but clinically diverse group of patients. Furthermore,
it provides valuable information and well characterized antibody
candidates for the development of a recombinant antibody treatment for
SARS-CoV-2. Nevertheless, it also shows that plasmapheresis might have
variability in its effectiveness, depending on the donor’s antibody
repertoire at the time of donation.

[]{#_heading=h.qgenuttpn22x .anchor}

[]{#_heading=h.1b4b0g63ddt .anchor}*Review by Jovani Catalan-Dibene as
part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology
Institute of the Icahn school of medicine, Mount Sinai.*

[]{#headingh.1b4b0g63ddt .anchor}

[]{#_heading=h.l2q1ameb1rjg .anchor}
