**Title:** Lectin-like Intestinal Defensin Inhibits 2019-nCoV Spike
binding to ACE2

**Immunology keywords:** defensins, spike protein, intestinal Paneth
cells, ACE2 binding

**Main Findings:**

Human ACE2 was previously identified as the host receptor for
SARS-CoV-2. Despite ACE2 being expressed in both lung alveolar
epithelial cells and small intestine enterocytes, respiratory problems
are the most common symptom after viral infection while intestinal
symptoms are much less frequent. Thus, the authors here investigate the
biology behind the observed protection of the intestinal epithelium from
SARS-CoV-2. Human defensin 5 (HD5), produced by Paneth cells in the
small intestine, was shown to interact with human ACE2, with a binding
affinity of 39.3 nM by biolayer interferometry (BLI). A blocking
experiment using different doses of HD5 coating ACE2 showed that HD5
lowered viral spike protein S1 binding to ACE2. Further, a molecular
dynamic simulation demonstrated a strong intermolecular interaction
between HD5 and the ACE2 ligand binding domain. To test HD5 inhibitory
effect on S1 binding to ACE2, human intestinal epithelium Caco-2 cells
were preincubated with HD5. Preincubation strongly reduced adherence of
S1 to surface of cells. HD5 was effective at a concentration as low as
10 µg/mL, comparable to the concentration found in the intestinal fluid.

**Limitations:**

The study focuses exclusively on intestinal cells. However, HD5 could
have been tested to block ACE2-S1 binding in human lung epithelial cells
as a potential treatment strategy. It would be useful to know whether
HD5 could also prevent viral entry in lung cells.

**Relevance:**

This work provides the first understanding of the different efficiency
of viral entry and infection among ACE2-expressing cells and tissues.
Specifically, the authors show that human defensin 5 produced in the
small intestine is able to block binding between S1 and ACE2 necessary
for viral entry into cells. The study provides a plausible explanation
on why few patients show intestinal symptoms and suggests that patients
with intestinal disease that decrease defensins’ production may be more
susceptible to SARS-CoV-2. It also indicates that HD5 could be used as a
molecule to be exogenously administered to patients to prevent viral
infection in lung epithelial cells.
