*Single-cell longitudinal analysis of SARS-CoV-2 infection in human
bronchial epithelial cells*

Ravindra et al. *bioRxiv* \[@doi:
https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.05.06.081695\]

#### Keywords

-   single-cell RNAseq,

-   bronchial epithelial cells

-   IL-6

-   ACE2

#### Main Findings

[]{#limitations .anchor}To study the cell tropism of SARS-CoV-2 and the
changes in molecular program of infected cells, the authors infected
organotypic human bronchial epithelial cells and analysed them by
single-cell RNAseq and electron microscopy over a course of three days.
In their organotypic model consisting of ciliated cells, basal cells,
club cells, goblet cells, neuroendocrine cells, ionocytes, and tuft
cells, they found that ciliated cells were the primary target although
basal and club cells were also susceptible. All susceptible cells
expressed the ACE2 receptor, but the expression level of ACE2 did not
correlate with the increased susceptibility of ciliated cells. scRNAseq
also revealed that while only infected cells produced type I and III
IFN, this IFN induced ISG production in uninfected bystander cells as
well. Pro-inflammatory IL-6 was specifically produced by infected cells
supporting a recent study from Xu et al. (PNAS, 2020) showing the
efficacy of tocilizumab in relieving COVID-19 symptoms. Lastly, analysis
of the transcriptome revealed that infection of ciliated cells
upregulated genes involved in apoptosis and viral gene expression while
downregulating genes involved in cilia function and homeostasis.

#### Limitations  {#limitations-1}

The authors did not address how well the organotypic bronchial
epithelial model reflects pathogenesis in vivo. The relevance of this
model would be strengthened with a comparison of clinical samples even
if the early time points are not captured. Additionally, cells were
observed for up to 3 days post infection so further transcriptional
changes that may occur at the height of infection would be missed.

#### Significance

[]{#credit .anchor}This study offers in-depth view into tropism of
SARS-CoV-2 beyond the expression of ACE2. The identification of ciliated
cells as primary targets has implications in the treatment of
respiratory symptoms of Covid-19 patients. The organotypic model may be
a promising tool for future studies as it recapitulates the findings
from scRNAseq of primary human tissues showing the expression of ACE2 in
various cells like nasal ciliated cells (*Nat Med,* 2020). Thus far,
human blood vessel and kidney organoids have proven useful for
demonstrating the potential of soluble recombinant ACE2 to inhibit
SARS-CoV-2 infection (Monteil et al., *Cell* 2020).

#### Credit {#credit-1}

*Reviewed by *Dan Fu Ruan, Evan Cody and Venu Pothula* as part of a
project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of
the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
