**Davidson et al. “Characterisation of the transcriptome and proteome of
SARS-CoV-2 using direct RNA sequencing and tandem mass spectrometry
reveals evidence for a cell passage induced in-frame deletion in the
spike glycoprotein that removes the furin-like cleavage site.” **

[***https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.22.002204v1.full.pdf***](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.22.002204v1.full.pdf)

**Review contributors: Tim O’Donnell, Maria Kuksin**

**Keywords**:

Transcription, RNA-seq, proteomics, mass spec, furin cleavage site,
mutation, pathogenicity

**Main findings**

The authors performed long read RNA sequencing using an Oxford Nanopore
MinION as well as tandem mass spec (MS) on Vero cells (a cell line
derived from kidney cells of the African green monkey that is deficient
in interferon) infected with SARS-CoV-2.

The authors found that passage of the virus in Vero cells gave rise to a
spontaneous 9 amino acid deletion (679-NSPRRARSV-687 to I) in the spike
(S) protein. The deleted sequence overlaps a predicted furin cleavage
site at the S1 / S2 domain boundary that is present in SARS-CoV-2 but
not SARS-CoV or the closely related bat coronavirus RaTG13, which are
cleaved at S1 / S2 by other proteases \[1\]. Furin cleavage sites at
similar positions in other viruses have been linked to increased
pathogenicity and greater cell tropism \[2\]. Loss of this site in
SARS-CoV-2 has also already been shown to increase viral entry into Vero
but not BHK cells (which are also interferon deficient) \[3\]. The
authors therefore make an important contribution in demonstrating that
passage in Vero cells may lead to spontaneous loss of a key
pathogenicity-conferring element in SARS-CoV-2.

**Critical analysis**

As the authors note, a similar study posted earlier by Kim et al., which
also passaged SARS-CoV-2 in Vero cells, did not identify any loss in the
S protein furin cleavage site \[4\]. It therefore remains to be
determined how likely it is that this mutation spontaneously arises. A
quantitative investigation using multiple experimental replicas to
understand the spontaneous viral mutation rate at this site and
elsewhere would be informative. Also, the mechanistic basis for the
higher viral fitness conferred by loss of the furin cleavage site in
Vero cells – but, evidently, not in vivo in humans, as this site is
maintained in all currently sequenced circulating isolates - remains to
be understood.

Due to the high base-call error rate of MinION sequencing, the authors’
bioinformatic pipeline required aligning transcripts to a reference to
correct sequencing artifacts. This presumably made it difficult or
impossible to identify other kinds of mutations, such as single
nucleotide substitutions, which may occur even more frequently than the
deletions identified in this work. Pairing long read sequencing with
higher-accuracy short-read sequencing may be one approach to overcome
this issue.

**Relevance**

As the authors suggest, animal studies using live virus challenge may
need to periodically verify the genomic integrity of the virus, or
potentially risk unknowingly using a likely less-pathogenic variant of
the virus.

More broadly, the results emphasize the complexity and plasticity of the
SARS-CoV-2 viral transcriptome and proteome. For example, the authors
found multiple versions of transcripts encoding the nucleocapsid (N)
protein, each with different small internal deletions, some of which
were verified for translation by MS. A number of peptides arising from
translation of unexpected rearrangements of transcripts were also
detected. Additionally, the authors identified phosphorylation of a
number of viral proteins (N, M, ORF 3a, nsp3, nsp9, nsp12 and S). For
any cases where these have functional consequences, targeting the
kinases responsible could be an avenue for drug development.
Understanding the functional consequences of the mutations, transcript
variations, and post translational modifications identified in this
study will be important future work.

\[1\] Wrapp, D. et al. Science. doi:10.1126/science.abb2507

\[2\] Sun et al. doi:10.1128/JVI.00797-10

\[3\] Walls et al. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.058

\[4\] Kim et al. doi:10.1101/2020.03.12.988865.
