**SARS-CoV-2 serological analysis of COVID-19 hospitalized patients,
pauci-symptomatic individuals and blood donors. **

Grzelak et al. *medRxiv* \[@doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.21.20068858\]

#### *Keywords*

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   COVID-19

-   Serological assays

-   NAbs

#### *Main Findings*

The prevalence of the SARS-CoV2-specific antibody responses in large
symptomatic and asymptomatic populations has been of great interest to
understand the incidence of and immunity against SARS-CoV-2 infection.
To analyze the virus-specific antibody response, Grzelak et al. designed
several assays: anti-nucleocapsid (N) and anti-trimerized spike (S)
ELISAs, S-Flow cellular assay, LIPS (luciferase immunoprecipitation
assay) and pseudovirus neutralization. They profiled several different
populations that included 491 pre-endemic individuals, 51 hospitalized
CIVID-19 patients, 209 pauci-symptomatic individuals reporting mild
signs compatible with COVID-19, and 200 sera from blood donors.

The full-length N protein or the extracellular domain of S in a
trimerized form, which existed naturally on the viral surface, were used
as ELISA antigens. In addition, to allow the detection of antibodies
binding to various conformations and domains of viral glycoprotein by
flowcytometry, S protein was expressed on the surface of 293T cells
(S-Flow). Luciferase immunoprecipitation assay (LIPS) was also
established with a panel of 10 different S and N-derived antigens, and N
and S1 proteins were selected as the antigens for the further analysis
based on their sensitivity.

With the four assays, signals were consistently negative or low in the
pre-epidemic samples, suggesting that a pre-exposure to human seasonal
coronaviruses did not induce obvious cross-reactive antibodies to S and
N protein from SARS-CoV-2. The analysis of 161 samples that combined
different time point samples from 51 hospitalized patients, detected
positives that ranged between 65 to 72 %. On the other hand, positivity
rates in pauci-symptomatic individuals varied from 27 to 36 % between
assays, suggesting that pauci-symptomatic individuals either had lower
viral loads or the reported symptoms were not caused by SARS-Co-V2.
Correlation analysis revealed that sera with high antibody levels were
well detected by all the assays, and that the highest correlation were
observed between ELISA tri-S and S-Flow.

Lastly, the presence of neutralizing antibodies (Nabs) was evaluated by
microneutralization (MNT) and pseudovirus neutralization assay using the
sera from 9 hospitalized patients and 12 pauci-symptomatic individuals.
A neutralization activity &gt;80% was associated with ELISA N (&gt;2.37;
OD~405~ values), ELISA tri-S (&gt;2.9; AUC values determined by plotting
the log~10~ of dilution factor required to obtain OD~405~), S-Flow
(&gt;60%; anti-Spike IgG+ cells) and LIPS-N (&gt;0.049; Signal-to-Noise
ratio).

#### *Limitations*

#### As described in the text, the pauci-symptomatic population appears to be a mix of the individuals with SARS-CoV-2 infection and individuals with other conditions that had COVID-19-like symptoms (fever, cough or dyspnea). 

#### It will be informative to investigate the relationship between the presence of anti-viral antibodies and neutralization activity, and severity of COVID-19.

#### *Significance*

#### While some of the assays described here cannot be routinely performed in clinical settings, their higher specificity and sensitivity to detect antibodies and their neutralizing activity is important to understand the protection mechanism against SARS-CoV-2. 

#### *Credit*

*Reviewed by Miyo Ota as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
