***Title***:  A serological assay to detect SARS-Cov-2 seroconversion in
humans

***Immunology keywords***:  specific serological assay - ELISA -
seroconversion - antibody titers

*Note: the authors of this review work in the same institution as the
authors of the study*

***Main findings***:  

Production of recombinant whole Spike (S) protein and the smaller
Receptor Binding Domain (RBD) based on the sequence of Wuhan-Hu-1
SARS-CoV-2 isolate. The S protein was modified to allow trimerization
and increase stability. The authors compared the antibody reactivity of
59 banked human serum samples (non-exposed) and 3 serum samples from
confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infected patients. All Covid-19 patient sera
reacted to the S protein and RBD domain compared to the control sera.

The authors also characterized the antibody isotypes from the Covid-19
patients, and observed stronger IgG3 response than IgG1. IgM and IgA
responses were also prevalent.

***Limitations of the study***:  

The authors analyzed a total of 59 control human serum samples, and
samples from only three different patients to test for reactivity
against the RBD domain and full-length spike protein. It will be
important to follow up with a larger number of patient samples to
confirm the data obtained. Furthermore, it would be interesting to
assess people at different age groups and determine whether unexposed
control kids have a higher “background”.

Applications of the assay described in this study in diagnosis are
limited, since antibody response should start to be detectable only one
to two weeks after infection. Future studies will be required to assess
how long after infection this assay allow to detect anti-CoV2
antibodies. Finally, while likely, the association of seroconversion
with protective immunity against SARS-Cov-2 infection still needs to be
fully established.

***Relevance***:

This study has strong implications in the research against SARS-Cov-2.
First, it is now possible to perform serosurveys and determine who has
been infected, allowing a more accurate estimate of infection prevalence
and death rate. Second, if it is confirmed that re-infection does not
happen (or is rare), this assay can be used as a tool to screen
healthcare workers and prioritize immune ones to work with infected
patients. Third, potential convalescent plasma donors can now be
screened to help treating currently infected patients. Of note, this
assay does not involve live virus handling. experimentally, this is an
advantage as the assay does not require the precautions required by
manipulation of live virus. Finally, the recombinant proteins described
in this study represent new tools that can be used for further
applications, including vaccine development.
