**Cross-talk between the airway epithelium and activated immune cells defines severity in COVID-19**
====================================================================================================

Chua R.L., Lukassen S, Trump S, Hennig B.P., et al.; medRxiv
2020.04.29.20084327;

[*https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.29.20084327*](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.29.20084327)

***Keywords***

-   Single-cell RNA sequencing

-   COVID-19

-   ACE2

-   Chemokines

*Main findings*

The need for improved cellular profiling of host immune responses seen
in COVID-19 has required the use of high-throughput technologies that
can detail the immune landscape of these patients at high granularity.
To fulfill that need, Chua et al. performed 3’ single-cell RNA
sequencing (scRNAseq) on nasopharyngeal (or pooled
nasopharyngeal/pharyngeal swabs) (NS), bronchiolar protected specimen
brush (PSB), and broncheoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from 14 COVID-19
patients with moderate (n=5) and critical (n=9, all admitted to the ICU;
n=2 deaths) disease, according to WHO criteria. Four patients (n=2 with
moderate COVID-19; n=2 with critical disease, n=1 on short-term
non-invasive ventilation and n=1 on long-term invasive ventilation),
were sampled longitudinally up to four times at various time points post
symptom onset. In addition, multiple samples from all three respiratory
sites (NS, PSB, BAL) were collected from two ICU patients on long-term
mechanical ventilation, one of whom died a few days after the sampling
procedure. Moreover, three SARS-CoV-2 negative controls, one patient
diagnosed with Influenza B as well as two volunteers described as
“supposedly healthy”, were included in this study with a total of n=17
donors and n=29 samples.

Clustering analysis of cells isolated from NS samples identified all
major epithelial cell types, including basal, scretory, ciliated, and
*FOXN4+* cells as well as ionocytes; of particular note, a subset of
basal cells was found to have a positive IFNγ transcriptional signature,
suggesting prior activation of these cells by the host immune system,
likely in response to viral injury. In addition to airway epithelial
cells, 6 immune cell types were identified and further subdivided into a
total of 12 different subsets. These included macrophages (moMacs,
nrMacs), DCs (moDCs, pDCs), mast cells, neutrophils, CD8 T (CTLs, lytic
T cells), B, and NKT cells; however, seemingly neither NK nor CD4 T
cells were detected and the Treg population lacked canonical expression
of *FoxP3,* so it is unclear whether this population is truly
represented.

Interestingly, secretory and ciliated cells in COVID-19 patients were
shown to have upregulated ACE2 and coexpression with at least one
S-priming protease indicative of viral infection; *ACE2* expression on
respiratory target cells increased by 2-3 fold in COVID-19 patients,
compared to healthy controls. Notably, ciliated cells were mostly
*ACE2+/TMRPSS+*, while secretory and *FOXN4*+ cells were predominantly
*ACE2+/TMRPSS+/FURIN+*; accordingly, secretory and ciliated cells
contained the highest number of SARS-CoV-2 infected cells. However,
viral transcripts were generally low 10 days post symptom onset (as
would be expected based on reduced viral shedding in later stages of
COVID-19). Similarly, the authors report very low counts of immune
cell-associated viral transcripts that are likely accounted for by the
results of phagocytosis or surface binding. However, direct infection of
macrophages by SARS-CoV-2 has previously been reported
[^1,2^](https://paperpile.com/c/0qRp0H/qZnZ+hPdH). Here, it is possible
that these differences could be due to the different clinical stages and
non-standardized gene annotation.

Pseudotime mapping of the obtained airway epithelial data suggested a
direct differentiation trajectory from basal to ciliated cells (in
contrast to the classical pathway from basal cells via secretory cells
to terminally differentiated ciliated cells), driven by interferon
stimulated genes (ISGs). Moreover, computational interaction analysis
between these *ACE2^+^* secretory/ciliated cells and CD8 CTLs indicated
that upregulation of ACE2 receptor expression on airway epithelial cells
might be induced by IFNγ, derived from these lymphocytes. However, while
IFN-mediated *ACE2* upregulation in response to viral infections may
generally be considered a protective component of the antiviral host
response, the mechanism proposed here may be particularly harmful in the
context of critical COVID-19, rendering these patients more susceptible
to SARS-CoV-2 infection.

Moreover, direct comparisons between moderate and critical COVID-19
patient samples revealed fewer tissue-resident macs and monocyte-derived
dendritic cells but increased frequencies of non-resident macs and
neutrophils in critically ill COVID-19 patients. Notably, neutrophil
infiltration in COVID-19 samples was significantly greater than in those
obtained from healthy controls and the Influenza B patient. In addition,
patients with moderate disease and those on short-term non-invasive
ventilation had similar gene expression profiles (each n=1),; whereas,
critical patients on long-term ventilation expressed substantially
higher levels of pro-inflammatory and chemoattractant genes including
*TNF, IL1B, CXCL5, CCL2*, and *CCL3*. However, no data on potentially
decreasing gene expression levels related to convalescence were
obtained. Generally, these profiles support findings of activated,
inflammatory macrophages and CTLs with upregulated markers of
cytotoxicity in critically ill COVID-19 patients. These inflammatory
macrophages and CTLs may further contribute to pathology via apoptosis
suggested by high *CASP3* levels in airway epithelial cells.
Interestingly, the CCL5/CCR5 axis was enriched among CTLs in PSB and BAL
samples obtained from moderate COVID-19 patients; recently, a disruption
of that axis using leronlimab was reported to induce restoration of the
CD8 T cell count in critically ill COVID-19 patients
[^3^](https://paperpile.com/c/0qRp0H/f82N).

Lastly, in critically ill COVID-19 patients, non-resident macrophages
were found to have higher expression levels of genes involved in
extravasation processes such as *ITGAM, ITGAX* and others. Conversely,
endothelial cells were shown to express *VEGFA* and *ICAM1*, which are
typical markers of macrophage/immune cell recruitment. This finding
supports the notion that circulating inflammatory monocytes interact
with dysfunctional endothelium to infiltrate damaged tissues. Of note,
in the patient with influenza B, cellular patterns and expression levels
of these extravasation markers were profoundly different from critically
ill COVID-19.

Importantly, the aforementioned immune cell subsets were found equally
in all three respiratory site samples obtained from two multiple-sample
ICU donors, and there were no differences, with regards to upper *vs*.
lower respiratory tract epithelial ACE2 expression. However, viral loads
were higher in BAL samples as compared to NS samples, and lower
respiratory tract macrophages showed overall greater pro-inflammatory
potential, corresponding to higher *CASP3* levels found in PSB and BAL
samples. In general, the interactions between host airway epithelial and
immune cells described in this preprint likely contribute to viral
clearance in mild and moderate disease but might be excessive in
critical cases and may therefore contribute to the observed COVID-19
immunopathology. Based on these findings and the discussed immune cell
profiles above, the authors suggest the use of immunomodulatory
therapies targeting chemokines and chemokine receptors, such as blockade
of CCR1 by itself or in combination with CCR5, to treat COVID-19
associated hyperinflammation.

*Limitations*

*Technical*

In addition to the small sample size, it is unclear whether samples were
collected at similar time points throughout the disease course of each
patient, even with time since diagnosis normalized across patients.
While sampling dates in relation to symptom onset are listed, it remains
somewhat unclear what kind of samples were routinely obtained per
patient at given time points (with the exception of the two patients
with multiple sampling). Moreover, it would have been of particular
interest (and technically feasible) to collect additional swabs from the
convalescent ICU patient to generate a kinetic profile of chemokine gene
expression levels, with respect to disease severity as well as onset of
recovery. Again, with an n=1, the number of cases per
longitudinal/multiple sampling subgroup is very limited, and, in
addition to the variable sampling dates, overall time passed since
symptom onset as well as disease symptoms and potential treatment (e.g.
invasive vs non-invasive ventilation, ECMO therapy…) across all clinical
subgroups, makes a comparative analysis rather difficult.

It is important to note that a lack of standardized gene annotation
across different studies contributes to a significant degree of
variability in characterizations of immune landscapes found in COVID-19
patients. As a result, inter-study comparisons are difficult to perform.
For instance, an analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing performed on
bronchoalveolar lavage samples by Bost et al. identified lymphoid
populations that were not found in the present study. These include
several enriched subtypes of CD4^+^ T cells and NK cells, among others.
Ultimately, these transcriptomic descriptions will still need to be
furthered with additional follow-up studies, including proteomic
analysis, to move beyond speculation and towards substantive hypotheses.

*Biological*

One additional limitation involved the use of the influenza B patient.
Given that the patient suffered a rather mild form of the disease (no
ICU admission or mechanical ventilation required, patient was discharged
from hospital after 4 days) as opposed to the to authors’ assessment as
a severe case, this patient may have served as an acceptable positive
control for mild and some moderate COVID-19 patients. However, this
approach should still be viewed cautiously, since the potential
differences of pulmonary epithelial and immune cell pathologies induced
by influenza compared to critical COVID-19 patients are still unclear.
Moreover, it seems that one of the presumably healthy controls was
recovering from a viral infection. Since it is unclear how a recent mild
viral infection might have changed the respiratory cellular compartment
and immune cell phenotype, this donor should have been excluded or not
used as a healthy reference control.

*Significance*

In general, this is a well-conducted study and provides a number of
corroborative and interesting findings that contribute to our
understanding of immune and non-immune cell heterogeneity in COVID-19
pathogenesis. Importantly, observations on ACE2 and ACE2 coexpression in
airway epithelial cells generally corroborate previous reports. In
addition, direct differentiation of IFNγ^+^ basal cells to
ACE2-expressing ciliated cells, as suggested by trajectory analysis, is
a very interesting hypothesis, which, if confirmed, might contribute to
progression of disease severity. The findings described in this preprint
further suggest an important role for chemokines and chemokine receptors
on immune cells, most notably macrophages and CTLs, which is highly
relevant.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park and Verena van der Heide
as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology
Institute of the Icahn school of medicine, Mount Sinai. *

***References***

1\. [Chen, Y. *et al.* The Novel Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) Directly Decimates Human Spleens and Lymph
Nodes. *Infectious Diseases (except HIV/AIDS)* (2020)
doi:](http://paperpile.com/b/0qRp0H/qZnZ)[10.1101/2020.03.27.20045427](http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.27.20045427)[.](http://paperpile.com/b/0qRp0H/qZnZ)

2\. [Bost, P. *et al.* Host-viral infection maps reveal signatures of
severe COVID-19 patients. *Cell* (2020)
doi:](http://paperpile.com/b/0qRp0H/hPdH)[10.1016/j.cell.2020.05.006](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.05.006)[.](http://paperpile.com/b/0qRp0H/hPdH)

3\. [Patterson, B. K. *et al.* Disruption of the CCL5/RANTES-CCR5 Pathway
Restores Immune Homeostasis and Reduces Plasma Viral Load in Critical
COVID-19. *medRxiv* (2020).](http://paperpile.com/b/0qRp0H/f82N)
