***Title***: Respiratory disease and virus shedding in rhesus macaques
inoculated with SARS-CoV-2

**#### Keywords**: animal model, pulmonary infiltrates, dynamic
of antibody response, cytokine

***Summary***: Inoculation of 8 Resus macaques with SARS-Cov-2 , which
all showed clinical signs of infection (respiratory pattern, reduced
appetite, weight loss, elevated body temperature) resulting in moderate,
transient disease. Four animals were euthanized at 3dpi, the 4 others at
21 dpi. Study of viral loads in different organs showed that nose swab
and throat swabs were the most sensitive, with bronchio-alveolar lavage.
Interstitial pneumonia was visible in radiographies and at the
histological scale too. Clinically, the macaques had similar symptoms as
described in human patients with moderate disease.

Viral shedding was consistently detected in nose swabs and throat swabs
immediately after infection but less consistent thereafter which could
reflect virus administration route (intranasal, oral). Bronchoalveolar
lavages performed as a measure of virus replication in the lower
respiratory tract on animals maintained for 21 days, contained high
viral loads in 1 and 3dpi. The majority of the animals exhibited
pulmonary edema and mild to moderate interstitial pneumonia on terminal
bronchioles. In addition to the lung, viral RNA could also be detected
throughout the respiratory track where viral replication mainly
occurred.

Immunologic responses included leukocytosis, neutrophilia, monocytosis
and lymphopenia in the majority of the animals at 1dpi. Lymphocytes and
monocytes re-normalized at 2dpi. Neutrophils declined after 3dpi and
through 10dpi after which they started to recover. After infection,
serum analysis revealed significant increases in **IL1ra, IL6, IL10,
IL15, MCP-1, MIP-1b, but quick normalization** (3dpi). **Antibody
response started around 7dpi, and the antibody titers stayed elevated
until 21dpi** (day of animal euthanasia).

***Critical analysis***: The macaques were inoculated via a combination
of intratracheal, intranasal, ocular and oral routes, which might not
reproduce how humans get infected. Maybe this can lead to different
dynamics in the host immune response. Also, the authors noted that the
seroconversion was not directly followed by a decline in viral loads, as
observed in covid19 patients.

***Critical analysis and Implications:*** This work confirms that rhesus
macaques can be a good model to study Covid-19, as it has been shown by
other groups (10.1101/2020.03.13.990226, 10.1101/2020.03.13.990036,
10.1101/2020.03.17.995639). While these experiments recapitulate
moderate COVID-19 in humans, the mode of inoculation via a combination
of intratracheal, intranasal, ocular and oral routes, might not
reproduce how humans get infected and may lead to different dynamics in
the host immune response. For example, the authors noted that the
seroconversion was not directly followed by a decline in viral loads, as
observed in COVID-19 patients. Therefore, it will be interesting to
follow their antibody titers longer and further assess the
possibility/effect of reinfection in these macaques. It is essential to
be able to understand the dynamic of the disease and associated immune
responses, and to work on vaccine development and antiviral drug
testing.
