### A SARS-CoV-2-Human Protein-Protein Interaction Map Reveals Drug Targets and Potential Drug- Repurposing

Gordon et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.22.002386]

#### Keywords

- protein-protein interactions
- mass spectrometry
- drug targets

#### Main Findings

Gordon et al cloned, tagged and expressed 26 of the 29
SARS-CoV-2 proteins individually in HEK293T cells and used mass
spectrometry to identify protein-protein interactions. They identified
332 viral-host protein-protein interactions. Furthermore, they used
these interactions to identify 66 existing drugs known to target host
proteins or host pathways (eg SARS-CoV-2 N and Orf8 proteins interact
with proteins regulated by the mTOR pathway, so mTOR inhibitors
Silmitasertib and Rapamycin are possible drug candidates).

#### Limitations

The main limitation of the study stems from
the reductionist model: overexpression of plasmids encoding individual
viral proteins in HEK293T cells. This precludes any interactions between
the viral proteins, or the combined effects of multiple proteins on the
host, as they are expressed individually. Moreover, HEK293T cells come
from primary embryonic kidney and therefore might not reflect how
SARS-CoV-2 interacts with its primary target, the lung. However, the
authors found that the proteins found to interact with viral proteins in
their experiments are enriched in lung tissue compared to HEK293Ts.

#### Significance

The authors provide a “SARS-CoV-2 interaction map,”
which may provide potential hypotheses as to how the virus interacts
with the host. Further, they identified existing drugs that could
disrupt these host-viral interactions and curb SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Although these interactions have not been validated, this paper acts as
a valuable resource.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
