Title: The phenotypic changes of γδ T cells in COVID-19 patients

*Keywords*

T cells, Innate immune response, CD25, γδ T cells.

*Main findings*

γδ T cells represent 1-10% of total circulating lymphocytes, and are
able to promptly respond to infections and other stimuli. To address the
effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on γδ T cells, the authors collected
blood samples from 18 healthy donor (HD) s and 38 COVID-19 patients and
analyzed the frequency and phenotype of γδ T cells.

Unlike other viral infections, COVID-19 patients presented lower
frequency of circulating γδ T cells than HD. Among γδ T cells, there was
an increase in the CD4+ subset and CD25 expression compared to
non-infected volunteers. The authors also report that γδ T cells of
COVID-19 patients didn’t present higher frequencies of early
activation/exhaustion markers such as CD69 and PD-1, in comparison to
the control group.

*Limitations*

There is very little information on COVID-19 patients or healthy
volunteers (age and sex should be reported). Furthermore, since the time
after the onset of symptoms and viral load may be important parameters
in the innate immune response to SARS-CoV-2 the authors should have
shown this information in a table.

Since lymphopenia is an important characteristic of COVID-19 patients
\[1\] and the authors observed lower frequencies of γδ T cells, it would
have been important to show frequencies and cell numbers for different T
cell populations.

*Relevance *

This study indicates, for the first time, that γδ CD4+ CD25+ T cells can
be involved in the acute phase of COVID-19. The function of γδ T cells
in the context of COVID-19 should be further investigated.

*References*

1\. Tan, L., et al., *Lymphopenia predicts disease severity of COVID-19:
a descriptive and predictive study.* Signal Transduct Target Ther, 2020.
**5**(1): p. 33.

Review by Alessandra Soares Schanoski as part of a project by students,
postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of
medicine, Mount Sinai.
