### Title: A single-cell atlas of the peripheral immune response to severe COVID-19

### Wilk, A.J. et al. MedRxiv \[@doi:10.1101/2020.04.17.20069930\]

**Keywords:** scRNAseq; Interferon-Stimulating Genes (ISGs);Activated
granulocytes

**Main Findings:**

The authors performed single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNAseq) on
peripheral blood from 6 healthy donors and 7 patients, including 4
ventilated and 3 non-ventilated patients. 5 of the patients received
Remdesivir.

scRNAseq data reveal 30 gene clusters, distributed among granulocytes,
lymphocytes (NK, B, T cells), myeloid cells (dendritic cells DCs,
monocytes), platelets and red blood cells. Ventilated patients
specifically display cells containing neutrophil granule proteins that
appear closer to B cells than to neutrophils in dimensionality reduction
analyses. The authors named these cells “Activated Granulocytes” and
suggest them to be class-switched B cells that have lost the expression
of CD27, CD38 and BCMA and acquired neutrophil-associated genes, based
on RNA velocity studies.

SARS-CoV2 infection leads to decreased frequencies of myeloid cells,
including plasmacytoid DCs and CD16+ monocytes. CD14+ monocyte
frequencies are unchanged in the patients, though their transcriptome
reveals an increased activated profile and a downregulation of HLAE,
HLAF and class II HLA genes. NK cell transcriptomic signature suggests
lower CD56^bright^ and CD56^dim^ NK cell frequencies in COVID-19
patients. NK cells from patients have increased immune checkpoint
(Lag-3, Tim-3) and activation marker transcripts and decreased
maturation and cytotoxicity transcripts (CD16, Ksp-37, granulysin).
Granulysin transcripts are also decreased in CD8 T cells, yet immune
checkpoint transcripts remain unchanged in both CD8 and CD4 T cells upon
SARS-CoV2 infection. The frequencies of memory and naïve CD4 and CD8 T
cell subsets seem unchanged upon disease, though γδT cell proportions
are decreased. SARS-CoV2 infection also induces expansion of IgA and IgG
plasmablasts that do not share Ig V genes.

Interferon-signaling genes (ISGs) are upregulated in the monocyte, the
NK and the T cell compartment in a donor-dependent manner. ISG
transcripts in the monocytes tend to increase with the age, while
decreasing with the time to onset disease. No significant cytokine
transcripts are expressed by the circulating monocytes and IFNG, TNF,
CCL3, CCL4 transcript levels remain unchanged in NK and T cells upon
infection.

**Limitations:**

The sample size of the patients is limited (n=7) and gender-biased, as
all of them are men.

The activating and resting signatures in monocytes should be further
detailed. The authors did not detect IL1B transcripts in monocytes from
the patients, though preliminary studies suggest increased frequencies
of CD14+ IL1B+ monocytes in the blood of convalescent COVID-19
patients\[1\].

Decreased NK cells, B cells, DCs, CD16+ monocytes and γδT cells observed
in peripheral blood might not only reflect a direct SARS-CoV2-induced
impairment, but also the migration of these cells to the infected lung,
in line with preliminary data suggesting unchanged NK cell frequencies
in the patient lungs\[2\].

The authors identified platelets in their cluster analyses. Recent
reports of pulmonary complications secondary to COVID-19 describe
thrombus formation that is probably due, in part, to platelet
activation\[3, 4\]. A targeted characterization of the platelet
transcriptome may thus benefit an increased understanding of this
phenomenon.

The transcriptome of the Activated Granulocytes should be further
detailed. As discussed by the authors, IL24 and EGF might be involved in
the generation of the Activated Granulocytes, though these cytokines are
poorly represented in the blood of the patients. The generation of these
cells should therefore be further investigated in future studies.

**Significance:**

The authors show a SARS-CoV2-induced NK cell dysregulation, in
accordance with previous studies\[5\]. Alongside the upregulation of
ISGs in NK cells, these findings suggest an impaired capacity of the NK
cells to respond to activating signals in COVID-19 patients. The
unchanged expression of immune checkpoints on CD4 and CD8 T cells
suggest distinct SARS-CoV2 dysregulation pathways in the NK and the T
cell compartments. In particular, the downregulation of transcripts
encoding for class II HLA but not for the HLA-A, -B, -C molecules in
monocytes suggest an impaired antigen presentation capacity to CD4 T
cells, which should be further investigated.

The authors provide preliminary results suggesting an age-related
activation of the monocytes in the COVID-19 patients. Future studies
will be needed to evaluate if the age impacts the involvement of the
monocytes in the cytokine storm observed in COVID-19 patients.

#### **References:**

1\. Wen, W., et al., *Immune Cell Profiling of COVID-19 Patients in the
Recovery Stage by Single-Cell Sequencing.* MedRxiv, 2020.

2\. Liao, M., et al., *The landscape of lung bronchoalveolar immune cells
in COVID-19 revealed by single-cell RNA sequencing*. 2020.

3\. Giannis, D., I.A. Ziogas, and P. Gianni, *Coagulation disorders in
coronavirus infected patients: COVID-19, SARS-CoV-1, MERS-CoV and
lessons from the past.* J Clin Virol, 2020. **127**: p. 104362.

4\. Dolhnikoff, M., et al., *Pathological evidence of pulmonary
thrombotic phenomena in severe COVID-19.* J Thromb Haemost, 2020.

5\. Zheng, M., et al., *Functional exhaustion of antiviral lymphocytes in
COVID-19 patients.* Cell Mol Immunol, 2020.

**Credit:**

*Reviewed by Bérengère Salomé and Zafar Mahmood as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
