**Review by Katherine Lindblad and Tamar Plitt**
10.1101/2020.03.18.20038513

Title: Dynamic profile of severe or critical COVID-19 cases
===========================================================

**Keywords:** Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19); SARS-CoV-2;
progressive lymphopenia (PLD); T-lymphocytes; clinical data;
co-infection; influenza A

**Summary**: Authors evaluate clinical correlates of 10 patients (6 male
and 4 female) hospitalized for severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). All patients required oxygen support and
received broad spectrum antibiotics and 6 patients received anti-viral
drugs. Additionally, 40% of patients were co-infected with influenza A.
All 10 patients developed lymphopenia, two of which developed
progressive lymphopenia (PLD) and died. Peripheral blood (PB)
lymphocytes were analyzed – low CD4 and CD8 counts were noted in most
patients, though CD4:CD8 ratio remained normal.

**Critical analysis**: The authors evaluated a small cohort of severe
SARS-CoV-2 cases and found an association between T cell lymphopenia and
adverse outcomes. However, this is an extremely small and diverse cohort
(40% of patients were co-infected with influenza A). These findings need
to be validated in a larger cohort. Additionally, the value of this data
would be greatly increased by adding individual data points for each
patient as well as by adding error bars to each of the figures.

**Significance**: This study provides a collection of clinical data and
tracks evolution of T lymphocyte in 10 patients hospitalized for
SARS-CoV-2, of which 4 patients were co-infected with influenza A.
