**Early, low-dose and short-term application of corticosteroid treatment
in patients with severe COVID-19 pneumonia: single-center experience
from Wuhan, China**

Corticosteroids, methylprednisolone, COVID-19 pneumonia, ARDS

This retrospective study evaluated the use of intravenous
methylprednisolone to treat severe COVID-19 pneumonia in a cohort of 46
patients. The severity of the disease was determined according to
version 5 of the Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Plan by
the National Health Committee of the People's Republic of China. The
percentage of patients with comorbidities was 32%, and it was reported
similar between methylprednisolone treated and untreated groups. The
results showed that the group of patients that received
methylprednisolone (n=26) had a shorter number of days with fever than
patients that did not received methylprednisolone (n=20); they also had
a faster improvement of peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2),
and better outcomes in follow-up CT scans of the lungs. The dosage of
methylprednisolone was reported to be 1-2mg/kg/d for 5-7 days, although
there is no information about the concrete dosages for each patient.
From the 46 patients, 43 recovered and were discharged, while 3 cases
were fatal. Patients without administration of methylprednisolone needed
longer periods of supplemental oxygen therapy, though there is no
reference to the number of patients requiring mechanical ventilation.
Interestingly, there were no significant differences in leucocyte and
lymphocyte counts nor in the levels of IL-2, IL-4, IL-6 or IL-10 after
treatment with methylprednisolone.

Some of our main criticisms to this study are also pointed-out by the
authors themselves: it is a retrospective single-center study with no
validation cohort and without mid- and long-term follow-ups. The
reported mortality was 7% (3/46) and did not appear to be affected by
corticosteroid treatment: one patient died in the group that did not
receive methylprednisolone, while two patients died in the
methylprednisolone treatment group. Additionally, although the authors
mention that patients received cotreatments, such as antiviral therapy
and antibiotics, there is no mention of differences between the
prevalence of other medications between the two groups. Unfortunately,
there is also no indication on whether the patients receiving
methylprednisolone were discharged earlier; the authors merely refer
that the symptoms and signs improved faster.

Corticosteroid have been widely used as therapy for acute respiratory
distress syndrome (ARDS), including in infections by SARS-CoV, so these
findings in COVID-19 patients are not unexpected. The implications of
this study for the current pandemic due to SARS-CoV-2 require evaluation
in future clinical trials, especially in a randomized way and in
combination with and comparison to other immunosuppressive and
immunomodulatory agents, including hydroxychloroquine. Nevertheless,
based on this report, the intravenous application of methylprednisolone
with the intention of strengthening the immunosuppressive treatment and
controlling the cytokine storm appears to be safe in COVID-19 patients,
and it might successfully shorten the recovery period.

This review was undertaken by Alvaro Moreira, MD as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.
