### Efficacy of hydroxychloroquine in patients with COVID-19: results of a randomized clinical trial

[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.22.20040758]

#### Keywords

- hydroxychloroquine

#### Study Description

This is a randomized clinical trial of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) efficacy
in the treatment of COVID-19. From February 4 – February 28, 2020 142
COVID-19 positive patients were admitted to Renmin Hospital of Wuhan
University. 62 patients met inclusion criteria and were enrolled in a
double blind, randomized control trial, with 31 patients in each arm.

Inclusion criteria:

1.  Age ≥ 18 years

2.  Positive diagnosis COVID-19 by detection of SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR

3.  Diagnosis of pneumonia on chest CT

4.  Mild respiratory illness, defined by SaO~2~/SPO~2~ ratio &gt; 93% or
    PaO~2~/FIO~2~ ratio &gt; 300 mmHg in hospital room conditions (Note:
    relevant clinical references described below.)

    a.  Hypoxia is defined as an SpO2 of 85-94%; severe hypoxia &lt;
        85%.

    b.  The PaO~2~/FIO~2~ (ratio of arterial oxygen tension to fraction
        of inspired oxygen) is used to classify the severity of acute
        respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Mild ARDS has a
        PaO~2~/FIO~2~ of 200-300 mmHg, moderate is 100-200, and severe
        &lt; 100.

5.  Willing to receive a random assignment to any designated treatment
    group; not participating in another study at the same time

Exclusion criteria:

1.  Severe or critical respiratory illness (not explicitly defined,
    presumed to be respiratory function worse than outlined in inclusion
    criteria); or participation in trial does not meet patient’s maximum
    benefit or safe follow up criteria

2.  Retinopathy or other retinal diseases

3.  Conduction block or other arrhythmias

4.  Severe liver disease, defined by Child-Pugh score ≥ C or AST &gt;
    twice the upper limit

5.  Pregnant or breastfeeding

6.  Severe renal failure, defined by eGFR ≤ 30 mL/min/1.73m^2^, or on
    dialysis

7.  Potential transfer to another hospital within 72h of enrollment

8.  Received any trial treatment for COVID-19 within 30 days before the
    current study

All patients received the standard of care: oxygen therapy, antiviral
agents, antibacterial agents, and immunoglobulin, with or without
corticosteroids. Patients in the HCQ treatment group received additional
oral HCQ 400 mg/day, given as 200 mg 2x/day. HCQ was administered from
days 1-5 of the trial. The primary endpoint was 5 days post enrollment
or a severe adverse reaction to HCQ. The primary outcome evaluated was
time to clinical recovery (TTCR), defined as return to normal body
temperature and cough cessation for &gt; 72h. Chest CT were imaged on
days 0 and 6 of the trial for both groups; body temperature and patient
reports of cough were collected 3x/day from day 0 – 6. The mean age and
sex distribution between the HCQ and control arms were comparable.

#### Main Findings

There were 2 patients showing mild secondary effects of HCQ treatment.
More importantly, while 4 patients in the control group progressed to
severe disease, none progressed in the treatment group.

TTCR was significantly decreased in the HCQ treatment arm; recovery from
fever was shortened by one day (3.2 days control vs. 2.2 days HCQ, p =
0.0008); time to cessation of cough was similarly reduced (3.1 days
control vs. 2.0 days HCQ, p = 0.0016).

Overall, it appears that HCQ treatment of patients with mild COVID-19
has a modest effect on clinical recovery (symptom relief on average 1
day earlier) but may be more potent in reducing the progression from
mild to severe disease.

#### Limitations

This study is limited in its inclusion of only patients with mild
disease, and exclusion of those on any treatment other than the standard
of care. It would also have been important to include the laboratory
values of positive RT-PCR detection of SARS-CoV-2 to compare the
baseline and evolution of the patients’ viral load.

#### Limitations

Despite its limitations, the study design has good rigor as a double
blind RCT and consistent symptom checks on each day of the trail. Now
that the FDA has approved HCQ for treatment of COVID-19 in the USA, this
study supports the efficacy of HCQ use early in treatment of patients
showing mild symptoms, to improve time to clinical recovery, and
possibly reduce disease progression. However, most of the current
applications of HCQ have been in patients with severe disease and for
compassionate use, which are out of the scope of the findings presented
in this trial. Several additional clinical trials to examine
[hydroxychloroquine](https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydroxychloroquine?src=hashtag_click)
are now undergoing; their results will be critical to further validate
these findings.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
