**Title: **

**Genomic determinants of pathogenicity in SARS-CoV-2 and other human
coronaviruses**

**Immunology keywords: SARS-CoV-1, SARS-CoV-2, MERS-CoV, pathogenicity
sequences, comparative genomics**

**The main findings of the article: **

In this study, potential genomic determinants of pathogenicity of the
high case fatality rates (CFR) coronavirus strains were identified using
integrated comparative genomics and advanced machine learning methods.

A total 3001 coronavirus genomes were compared. Of those, 944 belong to
viruses that infect humans, including both viruses with low CFR (NL63,
229E, OC43 and HKU1) and those with high CFR (MERS, SARS-CoV-1 and
SARS-CoV-2). The full genomes of these coronaviruses were aligned to
detect high-confidence genomic features that were predictive of the
high-CFR. Eleven regions were detected in total, and the nucleocapsid
(N) protein and the spike (S) glycoprotein were significantly enriched
with those predictive regions. Further analysis revealed that 4 out of
11 differences identified were reflected in the protein alignment, 3 of
which resided in the N phosphoprotein and one in the S glycoprotein. The
deletions and insertions found in N proteins mapped to monopartite
nuclear localization signals (NLS), one bipartite NLS and a nuclear
export signal (NES). They resulted in the accumulation of positive
charges in the monopartite NLS, bipartite NLS and NES of SARS-CoV-1 and
SARS-CoV-2, whereas in MERS-CoV, positive charges accumulated primarily
in the first of the two monopartite NLS. The accumulation of positive
charges is known to result in the enhancement of these signals, thus
implying that the localization pattern of the N proteins differs between
high-CFR and low-CFR strains, and this may be a factor contributing to
the increased pathogenicity of high-CFR strains. The analysis of S
protein revealed a unique 4 amino acid insertion upstream of the heptad
repeat region in all high-CFR viruses but not in any of the low-CFR
ones. The structural analysis of SARS-CoV confirmed that this insertion
increased the length and flexibility of the region connecting the fusion
peptide and the first heptad repeat, likely affecting the membrane
fusion process of the high-CFR coronaviruses.

By the alignment of all 3001 collected coronavirus strain sequences,
they also identified a unique insert in the RBD and the RBM in the cases
of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2, and within the subdomain that binds to DPP4
in the case of MERS-CoV. This unique insert was also found in the most
proximal zoonotic strains before the zoonotic strains jumped to human.
The unique insertions occurred independently in three high-CFR strains
and resulted in a larger hydrophobic surface and additional
interactions, which might contribute not only to the zoonotic
transmission of the high-CFR CoV strains to humans but also their high
CFR.

**Critical analysis of the study:**

This study provides predictions on unique sequences present in
coronaviruses of high pathogenicity, and in highly related zoonotic
species. Functional analysis of the unique elements is not carried out.

There is an inconsistency related to description of positive/negative
charged proteins between figure legends of 2 and 3, and the main text.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics:**

The identification of unique sequences presents in the high-CFR but not
in the low-CFR human coronaviruses can be experimentally tested to
investigate the importance of each unique motive in the pathogenicity
and transmissibility of human coronaviruses. This information will be
useful to identify viruses with a potential to cause future pandemic,
and to develop novel therapeutic strategies.
