Title Rapid development of an inactivated vaccine for SARS-CoV-2
================================================================

Gao et al. bioRxiv \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.04.17.046375\]

#### Keywords

-   Inactivated vaccine

-   Neutralizing antibodies

-   Non-human primates

#### Main Findings

This study describes the development and pre-clinical tests on mice,
rats and rhesus macaques of a SARS-CoV-2 inactivated vaccine candidate.
Vaccine preparation (PiCoVacc) was generated from a viral strain (CN2)
isolated from a COVID-19 patient and cultured on Vero cells during 10
passages, before being inactivated with Beta-propiolactone, an
alkylating agent that damages nucleic acids and inhibits viral membrane
fusion.

Balb/c mice and Wistar rats were injected at d0 and d7 with PiCoVacc (0,
1.5 or 3 or 6 ug per dose) and alum adjuvant. SARS-CoV-2 S and RBD
specific IgG were detected after 1 week and continued to increase until
the end of the study (week 6). Micro-neutralization assays showed a
progressive augmentation of neutralizing antibodies (nAbs) against the
strain used to make the PiCoVacc from week 1 to week 6. These antibodies
(from week 3) also neutralized 9 others SARS-CoV-2 strains.

Next, rhesus macaques (n=4 per group) were immunized intramuscularly
three times at d0, d7 and d14 with 0 (sham), 3ug (medium dose) or 6ug
(high dose) of PiCoVacc with alum adjuvant, or only physiological
saline. S-specific IgG and nAbs were measured at week 2 in both
vaccinated groups. No fever or weight loss was observed after
immunization. Biochemical blood tests, lymphocytes subset percent and
cytokines showed no particular changed. Histopathological analysis of
several organs (kidney, brain, liver, heart, spleen) did not show any
changes either.

Macaques were then challenged by intra-tracheal inoculation of 10^6^
TCID~50~ viral preparation of a different strain through the
intra-tracheal route, 8 days after the third vaccine inoculation. All
non-vaccinated controls showed important amount of viral RNA in pharynx,
crissum and lung until day 7 post inoculation (dpi) and had severe
interstitial pneumonia, whereas vaccinated macaques showed a quick
decrease in throat viral loads and small histopathological changes in
the lungs. Macaque vaccinated with the high dose had undetectable viral
loads in lungs and anal swab at any point of the study. No Antibody
Dependent Enhancement (ADE) was observed.

#### Limitations

The macaques were challenge at the peak of the antibody response induced
by the vaccine and no data was collected to assess the length of vaccine
protection. Furthermore, the macaques were euthanized as early as seven
days after the virus challenge and longer time of analysis will be
required to evaluate potential immune-pathological effects of the
vaccination and the dynamics of the infection in the different groups.
Finally, the size of the study is very limited with 4 animals vaccinated
per group.

While SARS-CoV-2 appears to be relatively stable, it would be
interesting to test cross reactivity and protection with heterologous
viruses, to confirm that the nAb induced by the vaccine can neutralize
many other SARS-CoV-2 strains, as it was performed in the mice and rat
studies. Indeed, although two different strains were used for the
immunization and the challenge in rhesus macaques, the S protein
sequences of those strains are identical, and the Genbank accession
number to compare the rest of the sequence was not made available yet.

Furthermore, as most of COVID-19 severe patients are of advanced age,
testing if this inactivated vaccine can also elicit antibody response in
aged macaques would be of great interest.

The timing of vaccination and challenge is not clear with contradictory
timelines indicated in the figures and main text. The authors do not
describe the inactivation process of the virus enough, nor show any
evidence of inactivation. More description and evidence of the
inactivation (by showing that the virus does not grow in Vero cells nor
in animals) is required to assess efficacy of vaccination

*Finally, the resolution of the figures is really low and makes it hard
to analyze*

####  

#### Significance

Development of a vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 is strongly needed as no
effective treatment has been found yet. Among all the vaccine clinical
trials already started^2^, this pre-clinical study shows that this
inactivated vaccine could represent a good candidate for further
development as it protected rhesus macaques from viral challenge without
immediate side-effects. Although more pre-clinical data seem to be
needed before starting human trials, this is the first study to our
knowledge to show effectiveness in non-human primates. The
biopharmaceutical firm, Sinovac, has registered phase I and II clinical
trials ^1^. Moreover, the inactivation technique for vaccine development
is well known and can be adapted for production in other facilities.

#### 

#### Credit

*Reviewed by Emma Risson as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*

1\. Safety and Immunogenicity Study of 2019-nCoV Vaccine (Inactivated)
for Prophylaxis SARS CoV-2 Infection (COVID-19) - Full Text View -
ClinicalTrials.gov. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04352608.
Accessed April 22, 2020.

2\. [World Health Organization (2020). Draft of the landscape of COVID-19
candidate vaccines. World Health Organization
4–4.](http://paperpile.com/b/F9bKuX/LCEi)
