### The inhaled corticosteroid ciclesonide blocks coronavirus RNA replication by targeting viral NSP15

Matsuyama et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.11.987016]

#### Keywords

- Corticosteroids
- ciclesonide
- mometasone
- NSP15
- MERS-CoV

#### Main Findings

This study reconsiders the use of inhaled corticosteroids in the
treatment of pneumonia by coronavirus. Corticosteroids were associated
with increased mortality for SARS in 2003 and for MERS in 2013, probably
due to that fact that systemic corticosteroids suppress the innate
immune system, resulting in increased viral replication. However, some
steroid compounds might block coronavirus replication. The authors
screened steroids from a chemical library and assessed the viral growth
suppression and drug cytotoxicity. Ciclesonide demonstrated low
cytotoxicity and potent suppression of MERS-CoV viral growth. The
commonly used systemic steroids cortisone, prednisolone and
dexamethasone did not suppress viral growth, nor did the commonly used
inhaled steroid fluticasone. To identify the drug target of virus
replication, the authors conducted 11 consecutive MERS-CoV passages in
the presence of ciclesonide or mometasone, and they could generate a
mutant virus that developed resistance to ciclesonide, but not to
mometasone. Afterwards, they performed next-generation sequencing and
identified an amino acid substitution in nonstructural protein 15
(NSP15) as the predicted mechanism for viral resistance to ciclesonide.
The authors were able to successfully generate a recombinant virus
carrying that amino acid substitution, which overcome the antiviral
effect of ciclesonide, suggesting that ciclosenide interacts with NSP15.
The mutant virus was inhibited by mometasone, suggesting that the
antiviral target of mometasone is different from that of ciclesonide.
Lastly, the effects of ciclesonide and mometason on suppressing the
replication of SARS-CoV-2 were evaluated. Both compounds were found to
suppress viral replication with a similar efficacy to lopinavir.

#### Limitations

Most of the experiments, including the identification of the mutation in
NSP15 were conducted with MERS-CoV. This is not the closest related
virus to SARS-CoV-2, as that would be SARS-CoV. Thus, to repeat the
initial experiments with SARS-CoV, or preferably SARS-CoV-2, is
essential. The manuscript should address this and, therefore, it will
require considerable editing for organization and clarity. Also, in
terms of cell immunogenic epitopes, while SARS-CoV-2 spike protein
contains several predicted B and T cell immunogenic epitopes that are
shared with other coronaviruses, some studies have shown critical
differences between MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. A main criticism
is that the authors only used VeroE6/TMPRSS2 cells to gauge the direct
cytotoxic effects of viral replication. To evaluate this in other cell
lines, including human airway epithelial cells, is crucial, as the
infectivity of coronavirus strains greatly varies in different cell
lines,

#### Significance

Nevertheless, these findings encourage evaluating ciclesonide and
mometasone as better options for patients with COVID-19 in need of
inhaled steroids, especially as an alternative to other corticosteroids
that have been shown to increase viral replication in vitro. This should
be evaluated in future clinical studies.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by Alvaro Moreira, MD as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
