DOI: 10.1101/2020.02.28.20028514

Title: Risk Factors Related to Hepatic Injury in Patients with Corona
Virus Disease 2019

Keywords: COVID-related Hepatic Injury

Summary: Based on a retrospective study of 85 hospitalized COVID
patients in a Beijing hospital, authors showed that patients with
elevated ALT levels (n = 33) were characterized by significantly higher
levels of lactic acid and CRP as well as lymphopenia and hypoalbuminemia
compared to their counterparts with normal ALT levels. Proportion of
severe and critical patients in the ALT elevation group was
significantly higher than that of normal ALT group. Multivariate
logistic regression performed on clinical factors related to ALT
elevation showed that CRP $\geq$ 20mg/L and low lymphocyte count
(&lt;1.1\*10\^9 cells/L) were independently related to ALT elevation—a
finding that led the authors to suggest cytokine storm as a major
mechanism of liver damage.

Limitations:

The article’s most attractive claim that liver damage seen in COVID
patients is caused by cytokine storm (rather than direct infection of
the liver) hinges solely on their multivariate regression analysis.
Without further mechanistic studies a) demonstrating how high levels of
inflammatory cytokines can induce liver damage and b) contrasting types
of liver damage incurred by direct infection of the liver vs.
system-wide elevation of inflammatory cytokines, their claim remains
thin. It is also worth noting that six of their elevated ALT group
(n=33) had a history of liver disease (i.e. HBV infection, alcoholic
liver disease, fatty liver) which can confound their effort to pin down
the cause of hepatic injury to COVID.

Significance of the finding: Limited. This article confirms a rich body
of literature describing liver damage and lymphopenia in COVID patients.

Summary generated by Chang Moon.
