#### An orally bioavailable broad-spectrum antiviral inhibits SARS-CoV-2 and multiple 2 endemic, epidemic and bat coronavirus

Sheahan et al. *bioRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.19.997890]

#### Keywords
- Treatment
- Antiviral
- Broad spectrum antiviral
- ribonucleoside analog β-D-N4 30 hydroxycytidine (NHC)
- Remdesivir

#### Main Findings

β-D-N4 30 –hydroxycytidine (NHC, EIDD-1931) is an
orally bioavailable ribonucleoside with antiviral activity against
various RNA viruses including Ebola, Influenza and CoV. NHC activity
introduce*d*~~s~~ mutations in the viral (but not cellular) RNA in a
dose dependent *manner* that directly correlated with a decrease in
viral titers. Authors show that NHC inhibited multiple genetically
distinct Bat-CoV viruses in human primary epithelial cells *without
affecting* *cell viability even at high concentrations (100* *µM)*.
Prophylactic oral administration of NHC in C57BL/6 mice reduce lung
titers of SARS-CoV and prevented weight loss and hemorrhage. Therapeutic
administration of NHC in C57BL/6 mice 12 hours post infected with
SARS-CoV reduced acute lung injury, viral titer, and lung hemorrhage.
The degree of clinical benefit was dependent on the time of treatment
initiation post infection. The authors also demonstrate that NHC reduces
MERS-CoV infection titers, pathogenesis, and viral RNA in prophylactic
and therapeutic settings.

#### Limitations

Most of the experiments were conducted using MERS-CoV, and
SARS-CoV and a few experiments were conducted using other strains of CoV
as opposed to SARS-CoV-2. The authors note the core residues that make
up the RNA interaction sites (which constitutes the NHC interaction
sites) are highly conserved among CoV and because of this conservation
their understanding is that NHC can inhibit a broad-spectrum of CoV
including SARS-CoV-2.

The increased viral mutation rates associated with NHC activity may have
adverse effects if mutations cause the virus to become drug resistant,
more infectious or speed-up immune evasion. *In addition, the temporal
diminishing effectiveness of NHC on clinical outcome when NHC was used
therapeutically is concerning. However, the longer window (7-10 days)
for clinical disease onset in human patients from the time of infection
compared to that of mice (24-48 hours), may associate with increased NHC
effectiveness in the clinic.*

#### Significance

Prophylactic or therapeutic oral administration of NHC
reduces lung titers and prevents acute lung failure in C57B\\6 mice
infected with CoV. Given its *broad-spectrum antiviral activity, NHC
could turn out to be a useful drug for treating current, emerging and
future corona virus outbreaks.*
 
#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
