**Clinical features and the maternal and neonatal outcomes of pregnant
women with coronavirus disease 2019**

***Keywords***

Pregnancy, SARS-CoV2, neonatal and maternal Covid-19 outcome

***Key findings***

33 pregnant woman and 28 newborns were included in this retrospective
multicenter study, conducted at 5 hospitals in Wuhan and Hubei province,
China, between January 1 and February 20, 2020. All women were diagnosed
with Covid-19 by qPCR or viral gene sequencing based on the Chinese New
Corona Pneumonia Prevention and Control Program, 6^th^ edition, and were
further subdivided into four groups based on clinical severity: (1)
mild, presence of mild clinical symptoms without radiological
abnormalities; (2) moderate, fever or upper respiratory symptoms as well
as radiological signs of pneumonia; (3) severe, at least one of the
following: shortness of breath/respiratory rate &gt;30/min, resting
oxygen saturation SaO~2~&lt;93%, Horowitz index paO2/FiO~2~ &lt; 300
mmHg (indicating moderate pulmonary damage); and (4) severe-acute, acute
respiratory distress with need for mechanical ventilation; systemic
shock; multi-organ failure and transfer to ICU. Maternal admission to
ICU, mechanical ventilation or death were defined as primary outcomes;
secondary study outcomes comprised clinical Covid-19 severity in both
mothers and newborns, including development of ARDS, neonatal ICU
admission as well as mortality.

*Maternal characteristics and outcome:* 3 out of 33 women were in their
second trimester of pregnancy (17, 20 and 26 weeks), and 15/33 (45.5%)
had a previous history of underlying chronic health disorders including
cardiovascular, cerebrovascular or nervous system disease. Common
Covid-19 symptoms at presentation were fever (63.6%), dry cough (39.4%),
fatigue (21.2%), and shortness of breath (21.2%). Less common symptoms
included diarrhea, post-partum fever, muscle ache, sore throat and chest
pain. 4 (12.1%) pregnant women had no apparent symptoms. The majority of
cases were classified as mild (39.4%) or moderate (57.6%); however, one
woman developed severe Covid-19. 40.6% of women were diagnosed with
bilateral pneumonia, 43.8% presented with unilateral pneumonia, and
15.6% showed radiological ground-glass opacity. 87.9% of women required
oxygen administration, and one (3%) woman had to be put on non-invasive
mechanical ventilation (primary outcome). 81.5% of women had a C-section
and only 5% had vaginal deliveries. Obstetrical complications were seen
in 22.2% of women, including three cases of preterm rupture of
membranes, two cases of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, and one
case of spontaneous preterm labor. Five pregnancies were ongoing at the
end of the observation point of this study; one woman decided to have
her pregnancy terminated. *Neonatal outcome:* Out of 28 newborns
included in this study, 35.7% were born preterm at &lt;37 weeks of
gestation with Apgar scores ranging from 8-10/10 at 1 min and from
9-10/10 after 5 min, indicating normal heart and respiratory rates.
17.9% of newborns were of low birth weight (not specified) and 14.3%
showed signs of fetal distress (also not specified). According to the
authors of this study, none of the newborns presented with clinical
Covid-19 symptoms. However, one newborn, delivered at 34 weeks of
gestation, was diagnosed with (apparently Covid-19 unrelated?) ARDS and
transferred to NICU (secondary outcome). Of 26 newborns tested for
SARS-CoV2, only one was found positive and showed radiological signs of
pneumonia, but no clinical symptoms of Covid-19. It remains unclear
whether this was the same case as the newborn diagnosed with ARDS. The
affected newborn did not require any treatment and was discharged at 16
days post birth. In summary, the primary outcome “mechanical
ventilation” in pregnant women was rare (3%), no other primary outcomes
were reached. Most Covid-19 cases in pregnant women were described as
mild to moderate. Only one of 28 (3.57%) newborns was diagnosed with
ARDS (secondary outcome).

***Potential limitations***

Major limitations of this study are its small size and the rudimentary
and at times inadequate description of patient specifics. For example,
underlying health conditions that might be affecting Covid-19 outcome in
pregnant women should have been clearly specified (other than being of
be listed (not just &lt;37 weeks). Given that maternal infection status
seemed mostly unknown at the time of birth and, more importantly, that
the majority of cases in this study were clinically asymptomatic or mild
to moderate, it remains unclear whether the C-sections performed were a
medical necessity or elective procedures. This is of importance and
should have been discussed. With regard to neonatal outcome, it is also
not apparent whether the newborn found to be infected with SARS-CoV2 and
the case diagnosed with ARDS were the same individual. If this was the
case, it would be incorrect to refer to all newborns as asymptomatic.
Additionally, it seems somewhat unlikely that a newborn with a
near-perfect Apgar score would present with ARDS immediately after
birth. Likewise, any individual diagnosed with ARDS would certainly be
expected to receive supportive treatment including (invasive) mechanical
ventilation. While it is highly relevant that overall clinical outcome
in pregnant women diagnosed with Covid-19 seems better than in SARS or
MERS (as discussed by the authors), it nevertheless needs to be stressed
that more than 37% of newborns in this study were delivered preterm and
that the obstetric complication rate of 22% seems higher than
non-Covid-19 average.

***Overall relevance for the field***

Observations in this study confirm some of the findings published in a
case series by Yu N et al. (Lancet Infect Dis 2020;
https://doi.org/10.1016/ S1473-3099(20)30176-6). However, due to the
relatively small study size of 33 pregnant women and 28 newborns, this
study lacks statistical power and final conclusions on Covid-19 outcomes
in pregnant women and newborns cannot be drawn. Yet, the data collected
here are important and should be incorporated into larger data sets for
more insight. Understanding the clinical course and effects of Covid19
in both pregnant women and newborns is essential, and while there are
some recent publications on vertical SARS-CoV2 transmission between
mothers and newborns (Dong L et al, JAMA March 26, 2020,
doi:10.1001/jama.2020.4621; Zeng H et al, JAMA March 26, 2020,
doi:10.1001/jama.2020.4861) as well as on neonatal infection at birth
(Zeng L et al, JAMA March 26, 2020,
doi:10.1001/jamapediatrics.2020.0878), our knowledge of how these
patient subsets are affected is still very limited.
