**Pre-existing and de novo humoral immunity to SARS-CoV-2 in humans**

Ng, K., Nikhil, F., Cornish, G., Rosa, A., et al.,; bioRxiv
2020.05.14.095414; doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.05.14.095414

***Keywords***

-   Humoral immune response

-   Human endemic coronaviruses

-   COVID-19

***Main findings***

Using a novel flow-cytometry-based assay, Ng et al. analyzed
anti-SARS-CoV-2 S-protein binding antibodies in sera collected from
COVID-19 patients between 2 to 43 days after symptom onset (SARS-CoV-2+;
pilot cohort n=35, extended cohort n=135; i.e. n=170 total), from
SARS-CoV-2-negative individuals with recent PCR-confirmed human endemic
coronavirus infection (SARS-CoV-2-/HCoV+; n=34) or SARS-CoV-2-negative
donors of unknown HCoV-status (SARS-CoV-2-; n=30 unspecified and n=50
pregnant donors; i.e. n=80 total) as well as from both SARS-CoV-2- and
HCoV-negative healthy controls (SARS-CoV-2-/HCoV-; n=31). With the
exception of 6 patients in the pilot group, presumably sampled prior to
seroconversion, the majority of COVID-19 sera at later collection time
points contained uniformly high levels of concurrent IgG, IgA, and IgM
antibodies binding to HEK293T cells transiently transfected with the
SARS-CoV-2 S-protein. Of note, anti-S IgG, but not IgA or IgM, binding
antibodies could also be detected, albeit at lower levels, in 8 of 95
samples from SARS-CoV-2-/HCoV+ and SARS-CoV-2- donors both by FACS assay
and using a standard anti-SARS-CoV-2 S-protein ELISA for validation.
Importantly, in accordance with a recent preprint by Premkumar et al.
(https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.05.06.2009337) none of these samples were
found to be cross-reactive against the highly specific S1 protein or
anti-receptor-binding domain (RBD) as determined by respective ELISA
assays. Additionally, 7 of these specimen (n=3 anti-S IgG-positive and
n=4 anti-S IgG-negative by FACS assay) were confirmed by specific ELISA
to also react with the SARS-CoV-2 N-protein, suggesting that a total of
12/95 SARS-CoV-2-negative donors with previous or unknown HCoV history
produced cross-reactive IgG binding antibodies against conserved
SARS-CoV-2 epitopes. This observation was additionally corroborated by
similar findings in a second cohort of SARS-CoV-2- patients with unknown
HCoV history (n=50), revealing that approximately 10% of these donors
had pre-existing antibodies that were cross-reactive against conserved
SARS-CoV-2 proteins. Notably, according to the authors, FACS-based
anti-S IgG detection, in particular at earlier time points prior to
seroconversion, was seemingly more sensitive compared to standard ELISA
assays, and simultaneous expression of anti-S IgG, IgA, and IgM binding
antibodies, exclusively limited to COVID-19 patients, was found to
persist for at least 43 days. Finally, Ng et al. demonstrate that anti-S
IgG binding antibody-containing sera from donors with recent HCoV
infections were equally capable of neutralizing lentivirus-pseudotyped
SARS-CoV-2 as serum samples obtained from seroconverted COVID-19
patients, suggesting that cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies may
interfere with SARS-CoV-2 target cell entry likely mediated by the
alternative receptor CD147 (unfortunately, no data shown). Furthermore,
levels of neutralizing antibody in SARS-CoV-2-/HCoV+ sera correlated
particularly robustly with anti-S IgG binding antibodies detected by
FACS assay.

***Limitations***

A general limitation of this preprint by Ng et al. is that extended data
repeatedly referred to throughout the manuscript is not accessible. It
is therefore impossible to assess some of the information provided in
text, e.g. about potential advantages of the FACS assay developed here
over conventional ELISA assays or regarding ACE2 and CD147 expression on
HEK293T cells as well as potential implications for SARS-CoV-2 cellular
entry. Furthermore, in addition to the relatively small sample size in
Figure 1 (cf. n=2-5 donors per panel), the exact number of donors
enrolled per study group as well as of specimens used per individual
experiment is somewhat unclear and should be specified: according to the
methods section, a total of n=114 SARS-CoV-2 negative donors with recent
or unknown HCoV infection were included; yet, throughout the manuscript,
the authors repeatedly refer to n=95 donors with diagnosed/potential
HCoV-infection as well n=50 pregnant donors of uncertain HCoV-status.
Similarly, numbers for both the SARS-CoV-2 negative, potentially
HCoV-positive, and the COVID-19 donor groups displayed in Figure 2a-d
may seem misleading within the general context of the manuscript (n=35
COVID-19 displayed vs. n=170 COVID-19 mentioned in text, n=64
potentially HCoV-positive donors displayed vs. n=114 mentioned in text).
This also seems to be the case for some of the SARS-CoV2-negative donors
testing positive for pre-existing cross-reactive antibodies. Given that
this is one of the central observations in this preprint, one would
expect the respective numbers mentioned in the manuscript to match the
data displayed in Figure 2a (n=8 by FACS assay vs. n=5 on display).
Moreover, information on clinical course and symptoms of COVID-19
patients would be of particular interest with respect to potential
differences in antibody composition related to disease severity as well
as in the context of sample timing and viral persistence as based on
qPCR detection (in addition to limited information on two donors of
interest already discussed in the manuscript). Similarly, to confirm
that simultaneous detection of IgG, IgA, and IgM co-expression is indeed
highly specific for active/convalescent COVID-19 as suggested by the
authors, this should be validated in donors with current HCoV infection
or in those recently recovered (i.e. earlier than 3-9 months post HCoV
diagnosis as was the case here) to exclude sample bias due to waning
HCoV humoral immunity with time in comparison to the very recent
COVID-19 patients studied here. Given that the clinical course of HCoV
infections might be similar to mild COVID-19 it is critical to determine
whether the observations about concurrent expression of IgG, IgA, and
IgM will reliably discriminate between active HCoV and SARS-CoV-2
infection. Finally, neutralizing capacity of cross-reactive IgG
antibodies eventually needs to be confirmed using live SARS-CoV-2 to
better assess the potential for antiviral protection. 

***Significance***

In this preprint, Ng et al report the flow-cytometry-based detection of
pre-existing binding antibodies against conserved SARS-CoV-2 epitopes in
around 10% of SARS-CoV-2 negative donors with confirmed or potential
previous history of HCoV infections. Notably, binding
antibody-containing sera from the same donors were found to possess
neutralizing activity comparable to samples obtained from seroconverted
COVID-19 patients, suggesting that pre-existing cross-reactive
antibodies may interfere with SARS-CoV-2 entry into target cells, likely
via alternative receptors such as CD147. Assessing the potential role of
both pre-existing binding and neutralizing antibodies in healthy donors
in the context of COVID-19 pathogenesis will be of particular
importance. The observations made here are also highly relevant for the
design and development of reliable diagnostic assays as well as of
potential vaccine candidates, and should therefore be further explored
in ongoing research on potential coronavirus therapies and prevention
strategies.

*This review was undertaken by Verena van der Heide as part of a project
by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the
Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai. *
