**National Consumption of Antimalarial Drugs and COVID-19 Deaths
Dynamics: An Ecological Study**

M. Izoulet, *medRxiv* \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.04.18.20063875\]

[]{#keywords .anchor}

*Keywords*

-   hydroxychloroquine

-   modeling

-   ecological fallacy

[]{#main-findings .anchor}

*Main Findings*

This preprint sought to compare the daily deaths in countries using
CQ/HCQ as a treatment from the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic to
those that did not. From a list of 60 countries in descending order by
number of confirmed cases, 16 countries were selected for inclusion into
either the high CQ/HCQ production or use group, versus not. Countries
were included if they met the criteria for having data from the day of
the 3^rd^ death in the entire country and the daily deaths for the 10
days immediately following, until both groups were populated with a list
of 16 (Figure 1: Table with the CQ/HCQ group list; Figure 2: Table with
the “control” group list). For each group of countries, the average
daily deaths were determined, and the curves projected to illustrate
trajectories. In Figure 3, the author suggests that the deaths in the
countries belonging to the control group follow an exponential curve,
while the progression of average daily deaths in the countries with
greater use of CQ/HCQ follow a polynomial curve.

The author then applies Auto Regressive Integrated Moving Average
(ARIMA), a modeling tool used for time-series forecasting (i.e.,
predicting the future trajectory of data over time using the data from
previous time points as predictors in a linear regression). The Auto
Regressive component refers to each difference between two previous time
points that make the model “stationary” (current – previous); the Moving
Average is the number of forecast errors from calculating these
differences that should go in the model. The author uses ARIMA to
predict the next 10 days of mean deaths for the CQ/HCQ list (Figure 6)
and the control countries (Figure 8). In figures 9 and 10,
autocorrelations of residuals are performed to determine internal
validity of the model, here defined as no significant autocorrelations.

In conjunction, the author argues that these findings support major
differences in death rates between countries that use/mass produce
CQ/HCQ versus those that do not.

[]{#limitations .anchor}*Limitations*

The title of this study refers to itself as an ecological study, an
observational study in which the data are defined at the population
level, rather than individual. Although this study design allows for
rapid hypothesis testing in large datasets, a robust ecological study
should account for as many known risk-modifying factors or confounders
as possible. Subsequently, any results should be reviewed under strict
criteria for causality, since there is high probability of the outcomes
falling under the definition of ecological fallacy, which occurs when
inferences about individuals are determined from inferences about a
group to which they belong.

This study conflated the use and mass production of CQ/HCQ at the start
of the COVID-19 pandemic in each respective country, with that country’s
direct pandemic response. It is never explained whether use or
production is the key output for any given country, which are vastly
different metrics. The author fails to consider other reasons for having
existing infrastructure for the mass production of drugs like
hydroxychloroquine, whether the country was a global supplier of the
medication (India), or is a region where malaria is endemic (India,
Pakistan, Indonesia, Malaysia, South Korea), which may correlate to both
chloroquine production and use. Notably, the countries from which
studies of HCQ in the treatment of COVID-19 have been predominantly
performed (China, France, USA), are all in the control list of
countries. Additionally, the data for cases and deaths were collected
from reports accessed from <https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/>;
data were not selected from the top countries using a methodological
approach, but rather skipping certain countries to use only the most
complete death data for the timeframe of interest, allowing for bias
introduced by the reporting of each individual country.

With regards to the statistical methods applied, namely ARIMA, they are
non-standard practices for interpreting the results of an ecological
study. The first problem with this, in my opinion, is that the message
will be difficult to interpret and criticize for many scientists, as
ARIMA will be unfamiliar to most in the biological sciences. Further,
the models applied (Table 4) do not take into account any confounders,
which is a requirement for robust analysis of an ecological study. There
are only 3 variables in this type of model: p, the autoregressive
coefficient, q, the moving average coefficient, and d, the difference
between points in the time-series. Any flaws or bias inherent to the
input data are then upheld and propagated by the model, which does not
allow for any other variable that would contribute to the risk of death
(say, honest and complete reporting by country).

*Significance*

The faults of the stratification of countries into the groups proposed
in this study, together with the unorthodox application of ARIMA
modeling, make it challenging to accept the conclusion that the author
draws in this study. The apparent decrease in death rate in countries
with a high production/use/either/or of CQ/HCQ could be due to any
number of other factors for which this study did not account. The top 5
countries in both confirmed cases and reported deaths are all in the
control list, which has no relationship to the amount of CQ/HCQ
production within those countries yet skews the data to make the
dynamics of death rate appear more dramatic.

*Reviewed by Rachel Levantovsky as part of a project by students,
postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai.*
