**Title:** Anti-hypertensive Angiotensin II receptor blockers associated
to mitigation of disease severity in elderly COVID-19 patients

**Keywords:** SARS-CoV-2, ACE-2, Renin-angiotensin system, Hypertension

**Main findings:** The authors analyzed clinical data obtained from
COVID-19 patients and categorized them based on the antihypertensive
drugs they were taking. They then investigated its association with
morbidity and mortality of pneumonic COVID-19 patients. ARBs were found
to be associated with a reduced risk of pneumonia morbidity in a total
of 70,346 patients in three studies. They found that in the elderly
(age&gt;65) group of COVID-19 patients with hypertension comorbidity,
the risk of severe disease was significantly lower in patients who were
on ARB anti-hypertensive drugs prior to hospitalization compared to
patients who took no drugs. Also, through their meta-analysis of the
literature, the authors reported that ARB anti-hypertensive drugs were
associated with a decreased risk of severe disease in elderly COVID-19
patients.

**Critical Analyses**:

1.  Retrospective study with large potential for confounder bias.

2.  Their inference that ARB is better than other anti-hypertensive
    drugs is based on literature met-analysis.

3.  P-values could not be computed for some subsets because of very
    low/no patients in these categories(ref to table-1;ACEI, thiazide
    and BB)

**Relevance:** Anti-hypertensive ARB drugs taken by COVID-19 patients
prior to entering the hospital may be associated with improved morbidity
and mortality of pneumonia in elderly COVID-19 patients although
confounders may bias results.
