### The feasibility of convalescent plasma therapy in severe COVID-19 patients: a pilot study

Duan et al. *medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.16.20036145]

#### Keywords

- COVID-19
- SARS-CoV-2
- convalescent plasma
- treatment outcome
- pilot
- therapy
- transfusion

#### Main Findings

This is the first report to date of convalescent plasma therapy as a
therapeutic against COVID-19 disease. This is a feasibility pilot study.
The authors report the administration and clinical benefit of 200 mL of
convalescent plasma (CP) (1:640 titer) derived from recently cured
donors (CP selected among 40 donors based on high neutralizing titer and
ABO compatibility) to 10 severe COVID-19 patients with confirmed
viremia. The primary endpoint was the safety of CP transfusion. The
secondary endpoint were clinical signs of improvement based on symptoms
and laboratory parameters.

The authors reported use of methylene blue photochemistry to inactivate
any potential residual virus in the plasma samples, without compromising
neutralizing antibodies, and no virus was detected before transfusion.

The authors report the following:

-   No adverse events were observed in all patients, except 1 patient
    who exhibited transient facial red spotting.

-   All patients showed significant improvement in or complete
    disappearance of clinical symptoms, including fever, cough,
    shortness of breath, and chest pain after 3 days of CP therapy.

-   Reduction of pulmonary lesions revealed by chest CT.

-   Elevation of lymphocyte counts in patients with lymphocytopenia.

-   Increase in SaO~2~ in all patients, indicative of recuperating lung
    function.

-   Resolution of SARS-CoV-2 viremia in 7 patients and increase in
    neutralizing antibody titers in 5 patients. Persistence of
    neutralizing antibody levels in 4 patients.

#### Limitations

It is important to note that most recipients had high neutralization
titers of antibodies before plasma transfusion and even without
transfusion it would be expected to see an increase in neutralizing
antibodies over time. In addition to the small sample set number (n=10),
there are additional limitations to this pilot study:

1.  All patients received concurrent therapy, in addition to the CP
    transfusion. Therefore, it is unclear whether a combinatorial or
    synergistic effect between these standards of care and CP
    transfusion contributed to the clearance of viremia and improvement
    of symptoms in these COVID-19 patients.

2.  The kinetics of viral clearance was not investigated, with respect
    to the administration of CP transfusion. So, the definitive impact
    of CP transfusion on immune dynamics and subsequent viral load is
    not well defined.

3.  Comparison with a small historical control group is not ideal.

#### Significance

For the first time, a pilot study provides promising results involving
the use of convalescent plasma from cured COVID-19 patients to treat
others with more severe disease. The authors report that the
administration of a single, high-dose of neutralizing antibodies is
safe. In addition, there were encouraging results with regards to the
reduction of viral load and improvement of clinical outcomes. It is,
therefore, necessary to expand this type of study with more
participants, in order to determine optimal dose and treatment kinetics.
It is important to note that CP has been studied to treat H1N1
influenza, SARS-CoV-1, and MERS-CoV, although it has not been proven to
be effective in treating these infections.

#### Credit

*Review by Matthew D. Park and revised by Alice O. Kamphorst and Maria A. Curotto de Lafaille as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
