**TMPRSS2 and TMPRSS4 mediate SARS-CoV-2 infection of human small
intestinal enterocytes**

Zang R. et al.  \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.04.21.054015\]

#### Keywords

-   TMPRSS2

-   scRNAseq

-   tropism

-   enteroid

-   intestine

-   fecal

#### Main Findings

-   Study uses scRNAseq to profile viral-entry genes in intestinal cell
    types and show confirmatory result of predominant ACE2 expression in
    CD26+EPCAM+ mature enterocytes. The transcriptomics also map
    TMPRSS2, TMPRSS4 and ST14 protease gene expression across mature
    enterocytes and other enteric cells. They additionally show ACE2
    protein localizing to the brush border of the intestinal epithelium.

-   Researchers use VSV chimera reporter virus with SARS-CoV-2 S protein
    to assay viral tropism in culture and demonstrate active replication
    in human duodenal enteroids as well as apical mature enterocytes
    (ACE2+) in monolayer system.

-   Used HEK293 with ectopic expression of proteases to show that
    TMPRSS2 or TMPRSS4 co-expression with ACE2 enhanced viral
    infectivity by enhancing endocytosis. CRISPR-Cas9 based deletion or
    pharmacological inhibition of TMPRSS proteases in human primary
    enteroids limited viral replication, more so upon TMPRSS4 deletion.

-   Further, a co-culture system designed with ACE2/TMPRSS2/4 expressing
    host cells and S-protein expressing donor cells, to mimic enteroid
    cell population interactions. Importantly found that TMPRSS2 can
    influence viral entry in trans through paracrine interaction, unlike
    TMPRSS4 that functions in cis.

-   SARS-CoV-2 chimera virus were very unstable in colonic fluids,
    compared to rotaviruses that were stable in gastric and colonic
    fluids. Supporting these data, CoVID-19 patient fecal sample
    analysis also consistently showed viral RNA load, but no infectious
    particles.

#### Limitations

-   The studies use pseudotyped-VSV reporter virus instead of WT virus,
    which could potentially have an impact on tropism. It will be
    important to replicate some of the co-culture studies using active
    SARS-CoV-2 virus as confirmation. Similarly, ectopic expression and
    co-culture experiments can be strengthened by replicating studies in
    primary cells.

-   Study mentions lack of infectious particle in fecal samples, but no
    conclusive data presented to support this important point.

#### Significance

-   #### TMPRSS4 important for influenza virus tropism, but not previously shown to be important in CoV-2 infectivity in the gut context. 

-   #### Co-culture experiments imply that paracrine interaction of TMPRSS2 (from goblet cells for example) on neighboring TMPRSS4/ACE2 expressing enteric cells can drive synergistic increase in viral infectivity in gut epithelia. Whether such gene expression distribution and protein interactions exist in other tissue contexts (lung, kidney) remains to be seen. 

-   Fecal-oral transmission of SARS-CoV-2 has not been broadly observed,
    but intestinal infection of ACE2++ cells has been reported
    clinically; this study reconciles these paradoxical observations by
    demonstrating that despite active infection and replication in
    enterocytes the virus might not remain intact in colonic fluids.
    Conversely, observed SARS-CoV-2 stability in small intestine might
    play a role in clinically presented GI pathologies.

*Reviewed by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
