**The ORF8 protein of SARS-CoV-2 mediates immune evasion through
potentially down-regulating MHC-I**

Zhang et al.; bioRxiv \[10.1101/2020.05.24.111823\]

*Keywords*

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   ORF8

-   MHC class I

-   autophagy

-   immune evasion

-   T cell

*Main findings*

In this pre-print, Zhang et al. hypothesized that one possible mechanism
used by SARS-CoV-2 to participate in efficacious viral spread is an
evasion of the immune response by interfering with antigen presentation
by infected cells via MHC-I. Of note, this behavior has been previously
characterized in other viruses, including HIV-1 and HSV.

The authors identified ORF8 as one such possible mediator of this
mechanism. Interestingly, an overexpression of ORF8 in HEK293T cells
resulted in a significant down-regulation of MHC I (HLA-A2) expression,
as determined by flow cytometry. Using GFP as a molecular marker and
HIV-1-derived Nef protein as a positive control, the authors evaluated
MHC-I heavy chain and β2M expression as a functional readout of overall
MHC-I expression on the control and ORF8-expressing 293T cells. Flow
cytometric analysis on these cells, as well as other cell lines that
were similarly tested (human fetal colon, human bronchial epithelial,
and human liver), showed significant down-regulation of MHC-I, in
response to ORF8 overexpression via plasmid transfection. The authors
confirmed that 293T cells could harbor ORF8 production by exposing
ACE2-expressing 293T cells to a SARS-CoV-2 strain. Importantly,
sequences of ORF8 from SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV-1 showed the least
homology, suggesting that this may be a potentially novel immune evasion
mediator.

To determine the cellular pathways underlying this relationship between
ORF8 and MHC-I, the authors used small molecule inhibitor analysis to
determine that ORF8-mediated down-regulation of MHC-I expression is
facilitated by lysosomal degradation. The authors performed western blot
analyses following in-tact lysosomal extraction to show that an
enrichment of MHC-I protein is seen in the lysosomes of 293T cells that
had been transfected with the ORF8 plasmid. In fact, confocal microscopy
of the ORF8-expressing cells showed a co-localization of the MHC-I
proteins with LAMP1, a marker for lysosomal membranes. In fact, the
authors demonstrated that ORF8 expression also co-localized with MHC-I.
Subsequent co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed binding of ORF8
with MHC-I complexes in these compartments.

The authors further elucidated this mechanism by determining the route
of the endolysosomal pathway used by this mechanism. A series of
co-localization/confocal microscopy experiments demonstrated significant
co-localization of ORF8 with ER components (CALNEXIN staining) and
lysosomes (LAMP1 staining), but not the Golgi or early endosomal
vesicles. The inability to counteract the ORF8-mediated down-regulation
of MHC-I via knockdown of vesicle-trafficking-related proteins supported
this finding. Importantly, the authors also evaluated MHC-I protein
ubiquitination as a cause of reduced surface expression; however,
knockdown of ER-associated protein degradation genes did not reverse the
phenotype. The authors identified, instead, that selective knockdown of
autophagy-associated proteins restored MHC-I expression, implicating a
role for autophagy in this process.

Finally, the authors tested the potential role of this relationship
between ORF8 and MHC-I in immune evasion. Using SSp-1, a predicted
potential SARS-CoV-2 epitope, the authors pulsed 293T cells (transfected
with empty vector or the ORF8 plasmid) with SSp-1 and exposed these
cells to SSp-1-specific CTLs via sensitization of HLA-A2 healthy donor
PBMCs with autologous DCs pre-pulsed with SSp-1. The killing assay
showed reduce elimination of target ORF8-expressing 293T cells by these
CTLs. The authors performed similar subsequent experiments by using CTLs
isolated from a recovering COVID-19 patient (selected from among other
patients, based on ability for their CTLs to secrete IFN-ɣ, when exposed
to S and N protein-derived peptides). When exposed to 293T cells that
were pulsed with the same peptide mixture, the SARS-CoV-2-specific CTLs
eliminated ORF8-expressing 293T cells at a lower efficacy.

*Limitations*

First, many of the experiments involved use of a cell line (HEK293T)
that had been transfected with a plasmid to overexpress ORF8. It remains
to be seen whether productive infection with a SARS-CoV-2 strain of
cells that naturally express human ACE2 results in the same
down-regulation of MHC-I.

Of note, the knockdown siRNA experiments investigating the role of the
autophagy pathway in ORF8-mediated down-regulation of MHC-I could be
bolstered with the use of additional controls for the Western blot
analyses, specifically cellular and lysosomal membrane proteins.
(Moreover, to provide context, the authors could have also included a
list of hits produced by the mass spectrometry analysis.)

Second, the authors do not provide a kinetics analysis that includes an
assessment of overall cell death of the transfected or infected 293T
cells. Though it is unlikely that we would see significant cell death in
the *in vitro* experiments described in this report (given that the 293T
cells were usually transfected by a plasmid), the kinetics of cell
turnover may have an impact on the overall contribution of ORF8-mediated
down-regulation of MHC-I to successful immune evasion.

Third, the T cell experiments could have been better supplemented by
analyses of MHC-I and ORF8 expression by infected cells and non-infected
cells of these patients by using FACS-sorted epithelial cells collected
from BAL. Moreover, the non-reactive T cells from COVID-19 patients
could have been used as controls, alongside the reactive T cells that
were used in this study to better assess killing in a controlled
experimental design.

Finally, without an *in vivo* experiment that demonstrates the
aforementioned observations, it is difficult to assess whether
additional signaling pathways active during viral infection, such as
interferon signaling, may influence the relationship between ORF8 and
MHC-I.

Generally, the aforementioned experiments could have compared the
results of using SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 with using SARS-CoV-1 ORF8 to further
demonstrate the specificity of this mechanism to SARS-CoV-2 infection
(in addition to the evidence that SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV-1 ORF8
proteins are the least homologous \[Fig. 1\]).

*Significance*

In summary, this report provides a direct mechanistic link between
SARS-CoV-2 infection and immune evasion that involves a role for ORF8, a
seemingly SARS-CoV-2-specific protein, and MHC-I expression. The results
warrant further investigations in an *in vivo* model to validate the
proposed relationship between ORF8 expression in infected cells and
MHC-I down-regulation and the subsequent impaired ability for CTLs to
kill these infected targets.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai. *
