### A human monoclonal antibody blocking SARS-CoV-2 infection **

Wang et al. *bioRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.11.987958]

#### Keywords

- Monoclonal antibodies
- SARS-CoV2
- cross-neutralization
- potential treatment
- spike receptor

#### Main Findings

The authors reported a human monoclonal
antibody that neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-Cov which belong to same
family of corona viruses. For identifying mAbs, supernatants of a
collection of 51 hybridomas raised against the spike protein of SARS-CoV
(SARS-S) were screened by ELISA for cross-reactivity against the spike
protein of SARS-CoN2 (SARS2-S). Hybridomas were derived from immunized
transgenic H2L2 mice (chimeric for fully human VH-VL and rat constant
region). Four SARS-S hybridomas displayed cross-reactivity with SARS2-S,
one of which (47D11) exhibited cross-neutralizing activity for SARS-S
and SARS2-S pseudotyped VSV infection. A recombinant, fully human IgG1
isotype antibody was generated and used for further characterization.

The humanized 47D11 antibody inhibited infection of VeroE6 cells with
SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 with IC50 values of 0.19 and 0.57 μg/ml
respectively. 47D11 mAb bound a conserved epitope on the spike receptor
binding domain (RBD) explaining its ability to cross-neutralize SARS-CoV
and SARS-CoV-2. 47D11 was shown to target the S1B RBD of SARS-S and
SARS2-S with similar affinities. Interestingly, binding of 47D11 to
SARS-S1B and SARS2-S1B did not interfere with S1B binding to ACE2
receptor-expressing cells assayed by flow cytometry.

#### Limitations

These results show that the human 47D11 antibody
neutralizes SARS-CoV and SARS-Cov2 infectivity via an as yet unknown
mechanism that is different from receptor binding interference.
Alternative mechanisms were proposed but these as yet remain to be
tested in the context of SARS-CoV2. From a therapeutic standpoint and in
the absence of in vivo data, it is unclear whether the 47D11 ab can
alter the course of infection in an infected host through virus
clearance or protect an uninfected host that is exposed to the virus.
There is a precedent for the latter possibility as it relates to
SARS-CoV that was cited by the authors and could turn out to be true for
SARS-CoV2.

#### Significance

This study enabled the identification of novel neutralizing
antibody against COV-that could potentially be used as first line of
treatment in the near future to reduce the viral load and adverse
effects in infected patients. In addition, neutralizing antibodies such
as 47D11 represent promising reagents for developing
antigen-antibody-based detection test kits and assays.

#### Credit

*This review was edited by K. Alexandropoulos as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
