### Detectable serum SARS-CoV-2 viral load (RNAaemia) is closely associated with drastically elevated interleukin 6 (IL-6) level in critically ill COVID-19 patients

[@doi:10.1101/2020.02.29.20029520]

#### Keywords

- ARDS
- interleukin-6 (IL-6)
- procalcitonin (PCT)
- pro-inflammatory cytokines
- SARS-CoV-2 RNAaemia

#### Main Findings

48 adult patients diagnosed with Covid19 according to Chinese guidelines
for Covid19 diagnosis and treatment version 6 were included in this
study. Patients were further sub-divided into three groups based on
clinical symptoms and disease severity: (1) mild, positive Covid19 qPCR
with no or mild clinical symptoms (fever; respiratory; radiological
abnormalities); (2) severe, at least one of the following: shortness of
breath/respiratory rate &gt;30/min, oxygen saturation SaO~2~&lt;93%,
Horowitz index paO2/FiO~2~ &lt; 300 mmHg (indicating moderate pulmonary
damage); and (3) critically ill, at least one additional complicating
factor: respiratory failure with need for mechanical ventilation;
systemic shock; multi-organ failure and transfer to ICU. Serum samples
and throat-swaps were collected from all 48 patients enrolled.
SARS-CoV-2 RNA was assessed by qPCR with positive results being defined
as Ct values &lt; 40, and serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) was quantified
using a commercially available detection kit. Briefly, patient
characteristics in this study confirm previous reports suggesting that
higher age and comorbidities are significant risk factors of clinical
severity. Of note, 5 out of 48 of patients (10.41%), all in the
critically ill category, were found to have detectable serum SARS-CoV-2
RNA levels, so-called RNAaemia. Moreover, serum IL-6 levels in these
patients were found to be substantially higher and this correlated with
the presence of detectable SARS-CoV-2 RNA levels. The authors
hypothesize that viral RNA might be released from acutely damages
tissues in moribund patients during the course of Covid19 and that
RNaemia along with IL-6 could potentially be used as a prognostic
marker.

#### Limitations

While this group’s report generally confirms some of the major findings
of a more extensive study, published in early February 2020, [@doi:10/ggjfnn],
there are limitations that should be taken into account. First, the
number of patients enrolled is relatively small; second, interpretation
of these data would benefit from inclusion of information about study
specifics as well as providing relevant data on the clinical course of
these patients other than the fact that some were admitted to ICU (i.e.
demographics on how many patients needed respiratory support, dialysis,
APACHE Ii/III or other standard ICU scores as robust prognostic markers
for mortality etc). It also remains unclear at which time point the
serum samples were taken, i.e. whether at admission, when the diagnosis
was made or during the course of the hospital stay (and potentially
after onset of therapy, which could have affected both IL-6 and RNA
levels). The methods section lacks important information on the qPCR
protocol employed, including primers and cycling conditions used. From a
technical point of view, Ct values &gt;35 seem somewhat non-specific
(although Ct &lt;40 was defined as the CDC cutoff as well) indicating
that serum RNA levels are probably very low, therefore stressing the
need for highly specific primers and high qPCR efficiency. In addition,
the statistical tests used (t-tests, according to the methods section)
do not seem appropriate as the organ-specific data such as BUN and
troponin T values seem to be not normally distributed across groups (n=
5 RNAaemia+ vs. n= 43 RNAaemia-). Given the range of standard deviations
and the differences in patient sample size, it is difficult to believe
that these data are statistically significantly different.

#### Significance

This study is very rudimentary and lacks a lot of relevant clinical
details. However, it corroborates some previously published observations
regarding RNAemia and IL-6 by another group. Generally, regarding future
studies, it would be important to address the question of IL-6 and other
inflammatory cytokine dynamics in relation to Covid19 disease kinetics
(high levels of IL-6, IL-8 and plasma leukotriene were shown to have
prognostic value at the onset of ARDS ; serum IL-2 and IL-15 have been
associated with mortality; reviewed by Chen W & Ware L, Clin Transl Med.
2015 [@doi:10.1186/s40169-015-0065-2]).

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
