Title Bulk and single-cell gene expression profiling of SARS-CoV-2 infected human cell lines identifies molecular targets for therapeutic intervention
======================================================================================================================================================

Wyler et al. biorXiv \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.05.05.079194\]

#### 

#### Keywords

-   scRNAseq

-   Interferon-Stimulated-Genes (ISGs)

-   HSP90

#### Main Findings

Wyler et al. performed bulk and single cell RNA sequencing of three
human cell lines at different time points after infection with
SARS-CoV-1 or SARS-CoV-2. The cell lines used were H1299 and Calu-3,
both epithelial lung cancer cell lines, and Caco-2, a colorectal
adenocarcinoma cell line. Permissiveness to SARS-CoV-1/2 was different
among cell lines: H1299, which express low ACE2 levels, produced less
viral RNA and lower yield of infectious virus than Caco-2 and Calu-3.

**Bulk RNA-sequencing** showed important differences in host
transcriptome responses between the Caco-2 and Calu-3 cell lines. Caco-2
cells exhibited an increase in ER stress genes. In contrast, Calu-3
exhibited a strong induction of Interferon-Stimulated-Genes (ISGs), such
as IFNB1, CXCL10, HLA-B, HLA-C. This ISG induction was 2-fold higher for
SARS-CoV-2 infection compared to SARS-CoV-1. **scRNAseq from Calu-3
cells confirmed the differential ISGs expression.** Sars-CoV-2 induced
higher expression of IFIT1 and IFIT2 than SARS-CoV-1. Only a cluster of
SARS-CoV-2 infected cells showed strong IFNB1 induction. RNA velocity
analysis, which can measure the amount of nascent RNA, showed that the
induction of ISG was short and transient during viral infection, and
preceded Nf-kB signaling target genes activation (IL6, TNF, NFKB1A). A
minor increase of ACE2 expression was also noted.

To detect subtler transcriptomic changes not related to the IFN
response, the authors analyzed **scRNAseq from H1299 cell line**, which
seem less permissive to infection. HSP90 expression correlates with the
amount of viral SARS-CoV-2 RNA, but not with SARS-CoV-1 RNA. A similar
induction was found in Calu-3 scRNAseq at early time point. Chemical
blocking of the HSP-90 pathway in Calu-3 cells upon viral infection led
to a strong reduction of viral replication and expression of the
pro-inflammatory genes IL1B and TNF, but interestingly, not of IFIT-2.

#### Limitations

Although increased transcription of ER stress genes was identified in
Caco-2 cells, the authors did not report changes in HSP90 expression in
this cell line. This could further indicate whether HSP90 induction is a
lung-specific mechanism and could explain COVID19 pathology. Moreover,
the relevance of these findings would benefit from the confirmation of
HSP90 upregulation in more physiological systems such as primary cells
or tissue derived from patients. Furthermore, validation of the role of
HSP90AA1 and specificity of 17-AAG using HSP90AA1 knock-out cell would
further strengthen these results.

The authors correlate the low susceptibility of H1299 with lower
expression of ACE2, but scRNAseq data of H1299 indicates that the
majority of cells are infected. Therefore, it is unclear what factors
are responsible of H1299 relative resistance to infection.

The authors state that the lack of ISGs induction in Caco-3 could be due
to a reduced expression of Pattern Recognition Receptors (PRRs) is this
cell line. There might be other differences between cells lines that
would explain the contrasting results, rather than the PRR expression.
To confirm the role of RNA sensors, the authors could perform targeted
experiments, such as genetic deletion of PRR pathway for example.

*Figure 1 and Suppl Figure 1 reference in the text seems to have been
mixed (S1D wrongly referred as Fig 1B, S1C as 1C, etc.)*

#### Significance

Although this model uses epithelial cancer cell lines, it is of great
interest to understand the effect of SARS-CoV-2 infection on lung
epithelial cells. Indeed, this study identifies a potential drugable
target (HSP90) against SARS-CoV-2 infection, although these findings
remains to be confirmed in primary tissues, animal models, or patients.
The effect of blocking HSP90 identified here is of important clinical
relevance, as it decreases viral replication and the production of
cytokines that could be involved in the ARDS pathogenicity.

Analysis of patients with severe COVID-19 showed impaired IFN-I
responses compared to mild or moderate cases^1^, and, together with
studies using animal models^2^, suggest a central role for the
dysregulation of IFN-I signaling in COVID-19 pathology. Activation of
IFN signaling upon SARS-CoV-2 infection has been observed in lung
epithelial organoids^3^, but other studies indicate a lack of robust IFN
type I/III signaling upon SARS-CoV-2 infection compared to influenza A
or RSV infection^4^. The possible discrepancies between the results
presented in this preprint and other studies could be explained by
different experimental settings, such as the use of different time
points, cell lines or MOIs, and warrant further investigations.

#### Credit

*Reviewed by Emma Risson and Bérangère Salomé as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*

1\. Impaired type I interferon activity and exacerbated inflammatory
responses in severe Covid-19 patients | medRxiv. Accessed May 12, 2020.
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.19.20068015v1

2\. Boudewijns R, Thibaut HJ, Kaptein SJF, et al. STAT2 signaling as
double-edged sword restricting viral dissemination but driving severe
pneumonia in SARS-CoV-2 infected hamsters. *bioRxiv*. Published online
April 24, 2020:2020.04.23.056838. doi:10.1101/2020.04.23.056838

3\. Ravindra NG, Alfajaro MM, Gasque V, et al. *Single-Cell Longitudinal
Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Infection in Human Bronchial Epithelial Cells*.
Microbiology; 2020. doi:10.1101/2020.05.06.081695

4\. Blanco-Melo D, Nilsson-Payant BE, Liu W-C, et al. SARS-CoV-2 launches
a unique transcriptional signature from in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo
systems. *bioRxiv*. Published online March 24, 2020:2020.03.24.004655.
doi:10.1101/2020.03.24.004655

5\. Zheng H-Y, Zhang M, Yang C-X, et al. Elevated exhaustion levels and
reduced functional diversity of T cells in peripheral blood may predict
severe progression in COVID-19 patients. *Cell Mol Immunol*.
2020;17(5):541-543. doi:10.1038/s41423-020-0401-3
