*Immune alterations during SARS-CoV-2-related acute respiratory distress
syndrome*

Bouadma et al. *bioRxiv* \[@doi:
https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.05.01.20087239\]

#### Keywords

-   T cells

-   NK cells

-   monocytes

#### Main Findings

In this study, Bouadma and authors longitudinally profiled multiple
immune parameters of a fatal case of Covid-19 that quickly developed
multiorgan failure. An 80-year old male patient presented with fever and
diarrhea that developed into multiorgan failure and hemoptysis over the
course of 24 days that resulted in death. During this time, he was
treated with broad-spectrum antibacterial agents, Remdesivir, and
interferon beta-1a. Peripheral naive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells remained
stable throughout, but effector memory T cells continually increased.
Exhausted and senescent CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and gamma delta T cells
increased following day 14. Activated and exhausted B cells peaked on
day 20. After day 16, NK cells and monocytes generally declined possibly
due to lung trafficking. These fluctuations in immune populations were
accompanied by induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines and Th1/Th2
factors that increased on day 14. Although some cytokines decreased
following day 14, cytokines associated with T cell activation,
exhaustion, and apoptosis continued to increase.

#### Limitations

It is difficult to draw broad conclusions from one patient and this
longitudinal study did not start at the onset of infection and symptoms.
Furthermore, these observations were done on the peripheral blood
without complementary analysis of the lung where they suspect NK cells
and monocytes have trafficked to.

#### Significance

This shows that immune cells proportion, functional state, and soluble
factors fluctuate throughout disease progression. This is a broad
overview of potential blood biomarkers that can be used to assess
progression and severity.

#### Credit

*Reviewed by *Dan Fu Ruan, Evan Cody and Venu Pothula* as part of a
project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of
the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
