### Potential T-cell and B-Cell Epitopes of 2019-nCoV

[@doi:10.1101/2020.02.19.955484]

#### Keywords

- COVID-19
- vaccine
- epitopes
- spike protein
- MHC-I
- MHC-II
- neutralizing antibodies
- ACE2

#### Main Findings

The authors use 2 neural network algorithms, NetMHCpan4 and
MARIA, to identify regions within the COVID-19 genome that are
presentable by HLA. They identify 405 viral epitopes that are
presentable on MHC-I and MHC-II and validate using known epitopes from
SARS-CoV. To determine whether immune surveillance drives viral
mutations to evade MHC presentation, the authors analyzed 68 viral
genomes from 4 continents. They identified 93 point mutations that
occurred preferentially in regions predicted to be presented by MHC-I
(p=0.02) suggesting viral evolution to evade CD8 T-cell mediated
killing. 2 nonsense mutations were also identified that resulted in loss
of presentation of an associated antigen (FGDSVEEVL) predicted to be
good antigen for presentation across multiple HLA alleles.

To identify potential sites of neutralizing antibody binding, the
authors used homology modeling to the SARS-CoV’s spike protein (S
protein) to determine the putative structure of the CoV2 spike protein.
They used Discotope2 to identify antibody binding sites on the protein
surface in both the down and up conformations of the S protein. The
authors validate this approach by first identifying antibody binding
site in SARS-CoV S protein. In both the down and up conformation of the
CoV2 S protein, the authors identified a potential antibody binding site
on the S protein receptor binding domain (RBD) of the ACE2 receptor
(residues 440-460, 494-506). While RBDs in both SARS-CoV and CoV2 spike
proteins may be important for antibody binding, the authors note that
SARS-CoV has larger attack surfaces than CoV2. These results were later
validated on published crystal structures of the CoV2 S protein RBD and
human ACE2. Furthermore, analysis of 68 viral genomes did not identify
any mutations in this potential antibody binding site in CoV2.

Finally, the authors compile a list of potential peptide vaccine
candidates across the viral genome that can be presented by multiple HLA
alleles. Several of the peptides showed homology to SARS-CoV T-cell and
B-cell epitopes.

#### Limitations

While the authors used computational methods of validation,
primarily through multiple comparisons to published SARS-CoV structures
and epitopes, future work should include experimental validation of
putative T-cell and B-cell epitopes.

#### Significance

The authors identified potential T-cell and B-cell epitopes
that may be good candidates for peptide based vaccines against CoV2.
They also made interesting observations in comparing SARS-CoV and CoV2
potential antibody binding sites, noting that SARS-CoV had larger attack
surfaces for potential neutralizing antibody binding. One of the
highlights of this paper was the authors’ mutation analysis of 68 viral
genomes from 4 continents. This analysis not only validated their
computational method for identifying T-cell epitopes, but showed that
immune surveillance likely drives viral mutation in MHC-I binding
peptides. The smaller attack surface may point to potential mechanisms
of immune evasion by CoV2. However, absence of mutations in the RBD of
CoV2 and the small number of mutations in peptides presentable to T
cells suggests that vaccines against multiple epitopes could still
elicit robust immunity against CoV2.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
