### Investigating the Impact of Asymptomatic Carriers on COVID-19 Transmission

[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.18.20037994]

#### Keywords

- Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
- SARS-CoV-2
- asymptomatic carriers
- mathematical model
- transmission

#### Main Findings

Multiple studies reported the same level of infectiousness
between symptomatic and asymptomatic carriers of SARS-CoV-2. Given that
asymptomatic and undocumented carriers escape public health surveillance
systems, a better mathematical model of transmission is needed to
determine a more accurate estimate of the basic reproductive number
(R~0~) of the virus to assess the contagiousness of virus. The authors
developed a SEYAR dynamical model for transmission of the new
coronavirus that takes into account asymptomatic and undocumented
carriers. The model was validated using data reported from thirteen
countries during the first three weeks of community transmission. While
current studies estimate R~0~ to be around 3, this model indicates that
the value could range between 5.5 to 25.4.

#### Limitations

The SEYAR model realistically depicts
transmission of the virus only during the initial stages of the disease.
More data is necessary to better fit the model with current trends. In
addition, multiple factors (e.g. behavioral patterns, surveillance
capabilities, environmental and socioeconomic factors) affect
transmission of the virus and so, these factors must be taken into
consideration when estimating the R~0~.

#### Significance

Public health authorities use the basic reproductive
number to determine the severity of disease. An accurate estimate of
R~0~ will inform intervention strategies. This model can be applied to
different locations to assess the potential impact of COVID-19.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by Tamar Plitt and Katherine Lindblad as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
