**Identification of Drugs Blocking SARS-CoV-2 Infection using Human
Pluripotent Stem Cell-derived Colonic Organoids**

Duan, X. *et al*. 2020. Biorxiv. DOI: 10.1101/2020.05.02.073320

**Keywords**:

-   SARS-CoV-2 drug screening

-   colonic organoids

-   gastrointestinal complications

-   MPA

-   QNHC

**Main findings**:

Gastrointestinal complications have been reported in almost 25% of
patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus^1^. This study illustrates a
high-throughput drug screening platform using Human Pluripotent Stem
Cell-derived Colonic Organoids (hPSC-COs) infected with the SARS-CoV-2
pseudo-entry virus. Using single-cell RNA sequencing and phenotypic
characterization of hPSC-COs, the authors show endogenous expression of
ACE2 in 5 characterized colonic cellular subsets, with the highest
expression of ACE2 in KRT20+ enterocytes. hPSC-COs were inoculated with
a SARS-CoV-2 pseudo-entry virus, which led to a significant decrease in
both KRT20+ enterocytes and ACE2+ cells. The authors also used humanized
*NOD-scid IL2Rg^null^* mice transplanted with hPSC-COs to serve as a
unique *in vivo* system for modeling COVID-19. Consistent with *in
vitro* findings, ACE2 was detected in KRT20+ enterocytes from organoid
xenografts, and luciferase expression was most highly detected in these
populations after local infection with the SARS-CoV-2 pseudo-entry
virus.

The authors next used the hPSC-CO system to perform high-throughput
screening of drugs from the Prestwick FDA-approved library; they
identified eight drugs that could block SARS-CoV-2 pseudo-virus
infection, as measured by a reduction of luciferase activity by at least
75%. Of note, mycophenolic acid (MPA) and quinacrine dihydrochloride
(QNHC) were drugs that showed specificity to the SARS-CoV-2 pseudo-entry
virus, and were also at least 5 times more efficacious than chloroquine
at inhibiting viral entry. Additionally, mice treated with MPA prior to
local SARS-CoV-2 infection had significantly lower luciferase+ cells in
xenografts compared to vehicle-treated mice. Lastly, the authors showed
an enrichment of specific chemokines that were upregulated in hPSC-COs
infected with the SARS-CoV-2 pseudo-entry virus, consistent with the
“cytokine storm” that has been reported in COVID19 patients^2^.

**Limitations:**

While the authors tested efficacy of MPA and QNHC prior to SARS-CoV-2
virus infection, they did not show whether these drugs would have
beneficial effects after viral infection. In addition, the effects of
QNHC were not investigated *in vivo*, which would need to be conducted
before proceeding to clinical trials. While this study focuses on using
MPA and QNHC in colonic organoid-derived systems, it would be important
to understand if similar therapeutic mechanisms also exist in infected
respiratory epithelial cells, such as lung alveolar epithelial cells and
nasal epithelial cells^3^.

**Significance:**

This study reveals advancements in utilizing translational hPSC-COs and
humanized mouse models to elucidate key cell types that might allow for
enhanced SARS-CoV-2 infection in the gastrointestinal system. The
authors’ *in vivo* system allowed them to study biological effects of
cells naturally expressing ACE2, instead of relying on transgenic mouse
models expressing the human ACE2 receptor. Moreover, the *in vitro*
hPSC-CO system enabled rapid, high-throughput screening of FDA-approved
drugs, which uncovered MPA and QNHC to be promising candidates for
SARS-CoV-2 entry inhibition, with greater efficacy than drugs currently
being investigated for therapeutic use in COVID-19.

**References:**

1\. Cheung, K.S., Hung, I.F., Chan, P.P., *et al.* Gastrointestinal
Manifestations of SARS-CoV-2 Infection and Virus Load in Fecal Samples
from the Hong Kong Cohort and Systematic Review and Meta-analysis,
Gastroenterology (2020), https://doi.org/10.1053/j.gastro.2020.03.065.

2\. Ricardo, J.J. and Manuel .A. COVID-19 cytokine storm: the interplay
between inflammation and coagulation. The LANCET (2020),
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2213-2600(20)30216-2

3\. Sungnak, W., Huang, N., Bécavin, C. *et al.* SARS-CoV-2 entry factors
are highly expressed in nasal epithelial cells together with innate
immune genes. *Nat Med* **26, **681–687 (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-020-0868-6

**Credit:**

*Reviewed by Shikha Nayar as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
