### Integrative Bioinformatics Analysis Provides Insight into the Molecular Mechanisms of 2019-nCoV

He et al. *medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.03.20020206]

#### Keywords

- ACE2
- lungs
- smoking
- COPD
- asthma
- SARS-Cov
- IL-1
- IL-10
- IL-6
- IL-8

#### Main Findings

The authors used bioinformatics tools to identify features
of ACE2 expression in the lungs of different patent groups: healthy,
smokers, patients with chronic airway disease (i.e., COPD) or asthma.
They used gene expression data publicly available from GEO that included
lung tissues, bronchoalveolar lavage, bronchial epithelial cells, small
airway epithelial cells, or SARS-Cov infected cells.

The authors describe no significant differences in ACE2 expression in
lung tissues of Healthy, COPD, and Asthma groups (p=0.85); or in BAL of
Healthy and COPD (p=0.48); or in epithelial brushings of Healthy and
Mild/Moderate/Severe Asthma (p=0.99). ACE2 was higher in the small
airway epithelium of long-term smokers vs non-smokers (p&lt;0.001).
Consistently, there was a trend of higher ACE2 expression in the
bronchial airway epithelial cells 24h post-acute smoking exposure
(p=0.073). Increasing ACE2 expression at 24h and 48h compared to 12h
post SARS-Cov infection (p=0.026; n=3 at each time point) was also
detected.

15 lung samples’ data from healthy participants were separated into high
and low ACE2 expression groups. “High” ACE2 expression was associated
with the following GO pathways: innate and adaptive immune responses, B
cell mediated immunity, cytokine secretion, and IL-1, IL-10, IL-6, IL-8
cytokines. The authors speculate that a high basal ACE2 expression will
increase susceptibility to SARS-CoV infection.

In 3 samples SARS-Cov infection was associated with IL-1, IL-10 and IL-6
cytokine production (GO pathways) at 24h. And later, at 48h, with T-cell
activation and T-cell cytokine production. It is unclear whether those
changes were statistically significant.

The authors describe a time course quantification of immune infiltrates
in epithelial cells infected with SARS-Cov infection. They state that in
healthy donors ACE2 expression did not correlate with the immune cell
infiltration. However, in SARS-Cov samples, at 48h they found that ACE2
correlated with neutrophils, NK-, Th17-, Th2-, Th1- cells, and DCs.
Again, while authors claim significance, the corresponding correlation
coefficients and p-values are not presented in the text or figures. In
addition, the source of the data for this analysis is not clear.

Using network analysis, proteins SRC, FN1, MAPK3, LYN, MBP, NLRC4, NLRP1
and PRKCD were found to be central (Hub proteins) in the regulating
network of cytokine secretion after coronavirus infection. Authors
conclude this indicates that these molecules were critically important
in ACE2-induced inflammatory response. Additionally, authors speculate
that the increased expression of ACE2 affected RPS3 and SRC, which were
the two hub genes involved in viral replication and inflammatory
response.

#### Limitations

The methods section is very limited and does not
describe any of the statistical analyses; and description of the
construction of the regulatory protein networks is also limited. For the
findings in Figures 2 authors claim significance, which is not supported
by p-values or coefficients. For the sample selection, would be useful
if sample sizes and some of the patients’ demographics (e.g. age) were
described.

For the analysis of high vs low ACE2 expression in healthy subjects, it
is not clear what was the cut off for ‘high’ expression and how it was
determined. Additionally, further laboratory studies are warranted to
confirm that high ACE2 gene expression would have high correlation with
the amount of ACE2 protein on cell surface. For the GO pathway analysis
significance was set at p&lt;0.05, but not adjusted for multiple
comparisons.

There were no samples with SARS-CoV-2 infection. While SARS-Cov and
SARS-CoV-2 both use ACE2 to enter the host cells, the analysis only
included data on SARS-Cov and any conclusions about SARS-CoV2 are
limited.

Upon checking GSE accession numbers of the datasets references, two
might not be cited correctly: GSE37758 ("A spergillus niger: Control
(fructose) vs. steam-exploded sugarcane induction (SEB)"" was used in
this paper as “lung tissue” data) and GSE14700 ("Steroid Pretreatment
of Organ Donors to Prevent Postischemic Renal Allograft Failure: A
Randomized, Controlled Trial" – was used as SARS-Cov infection data).

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
