**Title:** A New Predictor of Disease Severity in Patients with COVID-19
in Wuhan, China

**Keywords**: disease severity – clinical data – Neutrophils/lymphocytes
ratio – CRP – D-dimer

**Main findings:**

377 hospitalized patients were divided into two groups: severe and
non-severe pneumonia. The laboratory results of their first day of
admission were retrospectively analyzed to identify predictors of
disease severity.

After adjusting for confounding factors from chronic comorbidities (such
as high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, and
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), the independent risk factors
identified for severe pneumonia were **age**, the **ratio of
neutrophil/lymphocytes counts**, **CRP** and **D-dimer** levels.

To further increase the specificity and sensibility of these markers,
they showed that their multiplication **\[(Neutrophil/lymphocyte count)
\* CRP \* D-dimer\]** was a better predictor of disease severity, with
higher sensitivity (95.7%) and specificity (63.3%), with a cutoff value
of 2.68.

**Limitations:**

This study included 377 hospitalized patients. Among them, 45.6%
patients tested positive for SARS-Cov-2 nucleic acid test results, and
others were included in the study based on clinically diagnosis even if
the molecular diagnosis was negative. Thus, additional studies are
needed to verify this on a larger number of covid-19 certified patients
and the cutoff value might be adjusted. Also, all the patients that did
not have the clinical characteristics of severe pneumonia were included
in the non-severe pneumonia group, but usually patients are also divided
into moderate and mild disease.

Also, studying different subset of lymphocytes could lead to a more
specific predictor. Another study showed that the neutrophils to CD8+ T
cells ratio was a strong predictor of disease severity^1^. Another more
precise study showed that the percentage of helper T cells and
regulatory T cells decrease but the percentage of naïve helper T cells
increases in severe cases^2^. Taking these subpopulations into account
might make the predictor more powerful.

Other studies also noted an inverse correlation between disease severity
and LDH^3^ or IL6^4^ levels, but the authors here do not discuss LDH nor
IL6 levels, although this could help to strengthen the predictor.

The study is based on the results obtained on the first day of
admission, studying the dynamic of the changes in patients might also be
interesting to better predict disease severity.

*#### Significance*:

This study confirms that the neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio can be a
predictor of disease severity as shown by many others^2,5,6^. The
novelty here is that they show that a combination with other markers can
enhance the specificity and sensibility of the predictor, although the
study could be improved by taking into account sub-populations of
lymphocytes and more biological factors from patients such as LDH and
IL6.

1\. Longitudinal characteristics of lymphocyte responses and cytokine
profiles in the peripheral blood of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients |
medRxiv. https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.16.20023671v2.
Accessed March 29, 2020.

2\. Dysregulation of immune response in patients with COVID-19 in Wuhan,
China | Clinical Infectious Diseases | Oxford Academic.
https://academic-oup-com.docelec.univ-lyon1.fr/cid/advance-article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa248/5803306.
Accessed March 29, 2020.

3\. Clinical findings in critical ill patients infected with SARS-Cov-2
in Guangdong Province, China: a multi-center, retrospective,
observational study | medRxiv.
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.03.20030668v1. Accessed
March 29, 2020.

4\. Mortality of COVID-19 is Associated with Cellular Immune Function
Compared to Immune Function in Chinese Han Population | medRxiv.
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.08.20031229v2. Accessed
March 29, 2020.

5\. Clinical Characteristics of 138 Hospitalized Patients With 2019 Novel
Coronavirus-Infected Pneumonia in Wuhan, China. - PubMed - NCBI.
https://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.docelec.univ-lyon1.fr/pubmed/32031570.
Accessed March 29, 2020.

6\. Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio Predicts Severe Illness Patients with
2019 Novel Coronavirus in the Early Stage | medRxiv.
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.10.20021584v1. Accessed
March 29, 2020.
