### The potential role of IL-6 in monitoring severe case of coronavirus disease 2019

Liu et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.01.20029769]

#### Keywords
- Cytokine Release Syndrome
- lymphocytopenia
- IL-6
- CRP
- COVID19
- pneumonia

#### Main Findings

Study on blood biomarkers on 80 COVID19 patients (69 severe
and 11 non-severe). Patients with severe symptoms at admission
(baseline) showed obvious lymphocytopenia and significantly increased
interleukin-6 (IL-6) and CRP, which was positively correlated with
symptoms severity. IL-6 at baseline positively correlates with CRP, LDH,
ferritin and D-Dimer abundance in blood.

Longitudinal analysis of 30 patients (before and after treatment) showed
significant reduction of IL-6 in remission cases.

#### Limitations

Limited sample size at baseline, especially for the
non-severe leads to question on representativeness. The longitudinal
study method is not described in detail and suffers from
non-standardized treatment. Limited panel of pro-inflammatory cytokine
was analyzed. Patients with severe disease show a wide range of altered
blood composition and biomarkers of inflammation, as well as differences
in disease course (53.6% were cured, about 10% developed acute
respiratory distress syndrome). The authors comment on associations
between IL-6 levels and outcomes, but these were not statistically
significant (maybe due to the number of patients, non-standardized
treatments, etc.) and data is not shown. Prognostic biomarkers could
have been better explored. Study lacks multivariate analysis.

#### Significance

IL-6 could be used as a pharmacodynamic
marker of disease severity. Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) is a
well-known side effect for CAR-T cancer therapy and there are several
effective drugs to manage CRS. Drugs used to manage CRS could be tested
to treat the most severe cases of COVID19.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
