**Title: **

Higher Air Temperature, Pressure, and Ultraviolet Are Associated with
Less Covid-19 Incidence

**Doi:** 10.1101/2020.05.09.20096321

**Keywords: **

Covid-19 incidence, air temperature, air pressure, ultraviolet index

**The main finding of the article: **

Recent studies have diverged as to weather conditions are allied or not
with the spreading of Covid-19. Through random-effects meta-regression
analysis, this work aimed was to determine if elements linked to
meteorology can influence SARS-CoV-2 incidence and the speed of its
propagation. The number of Covid-19 patients and meteorological
conditions at each Japanese prefectural capital city from January to
April 2020 were collected.

The results demonstrated a negative association between Covid-19
incidence and monthly mean air temperature (C°) (coefficient -0.351),
sea level air pressure (hPa) (coefficient -0.001) and the monthly mean
daily maximum UV index (UV) (coefficient -0.001).

**Critical analysis of the study: **

The manuscript would benefit from a more thorough introduction and
discussion of the results in the context of previous studies. The
authors could explore more the results of the supplementary table 1
(wind speed, relative humidity and sunshine). The figure caption should
be better detailed, explaining the characteristics of each graph.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics: **

The transmission dynamics of SARS-CoV-2 depends on different factors,
such as population density, demographic and clinical characteristics of
the population, hygiene, local ventilation, etc., and the seasonality of
SARS-CoV-2 is not yet known.

The data of this manuscript suggest that higher air temperature, air
pressure, and ultraviolet are associated with a lower incidence of
Covid-19. Certainly, this study is a step in identifying which
environmental factors can favor viral transmission.
