### LY6E impairs coronavirus fusion and confers immune control of viral disease

Pfaender et al. *bioRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.05.979260]

#### Keywords

- interferon-stimulated genes
- antiviral interferons
- human coronaviruses (CoV)
- murine hepatitis virus (MHV)

#### Main Findings

Screening a cDNA library of &gt;350 human interferon-stimulated genes
for antiviral activity against endemic human coronavirus HCoV-229E
(associated with the common cold), Pfaender S & Mar K *et al.* identify
lymphocyte antigen 6 complex, locus E (Ly6E) as an inhibitor of cellular
infection of Huh7 cells, a human hepatoma cell line susceptible to
HCoV-229E and other coronaviruses. In a series of consecutive *in vitro*
experiments including both stable Ly6E overexpression and
CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockout the authors further demonstrate that Ly6E
reduces cellular infection by various other coronaviruses including
human SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 as well as murine CoV mouse hepatitis
virus (MHV). Their experiments suggest that this effect is dependent on
Ly6E inhibition of CoV strain-specific spike protein-mediated membrane
fusion required for viral cell entry.

To address the function of Ly6E *in vivo*, hematopoietic stem
cell-specific Ly6E knock-out mice were generated by breeding Ly6E^fl/fl^
mice (referred to as functional wild-type mice) with transgenic
*Vav-iCre* mice (offspring referred to as Ly6E HSC ko mice); wild-type
and Ly6E HSC ko mice of both sexes were infected intraperitoneally with
varying doses of the natural murine coronavirus MHV, generally causing a
wide range of diseases in mice including hepatitis, enteritis and
encephalomyelitis. Briefly, compared to wild-type controls, mice lacking
hematopoietic cell-expressed Ly6E were found to present with a more
severe disease phenotype as based on serum ALT levels (prognostic of
liver damage), liver histopathology, and viral titers in the spleen.
Moreover, bulk RNAseq analysis of infected liver and spleen tissues
indicated changes in gene expression pathways related to tissue damage
and antiviral immune responses as well as a reduction of genes
associated with type I IFN response and inflammation. Finally, the
authors report substantial differences in the numbers of hepatic and
splenic APC subsets between wild-type and knockout mice following MHV
infection and show that Ly6E-deficient B cells and to a lesser extent
also DCs are particularly susceptible to MHV infection *in vitro*.

#### Limitations

Experiments and data in this study are presented in an overall logical
and coherent fashion; however, some observations and the conclusions
drawn are problematic and should be further addressed & discussed by the
authors. Methodological & formal limitations include relatively low
replicate numbers as well as missing technical replicates for some *in
vitro* experiments (*cf*. Fig. legend 1; Fig. legend 2e); the omission
of “outliers” in Fig. legend 2 without an apparent rationale as to why
this approach was chosen; the lack of detection of actual Ly6E protein
levels in Ly6E HSC ko or wild-type mice; and most importantly, missing
information on RNAseq data collection & analysis in the method section
and throughout the paper. A more relevant concern though is that the
interpretation of the experimental data presented and the language used
tend to overrate and at times overgeneralize findings: for example,
while the authors demonstrate statistically significant, Ly6E-mediated
reduction of coronavirus titers in stable cells lines *in vitro*, it
remains unclear whether a viral titer reduction by one log decade would
be of actual biological relevance in face of high viral titers *in
vivo*. After high-dose intraperitoneal MHV infection *in vivo*, early
viral titers in Ly6E HSC knockout vs. wt mice only showed an elevation
in the spleen (\~1.5 log decades) but not liver of the ko mice (other
tissue not evaluated), and while ko mice presented with only modestly
increased liver pathology, both male and female ko mice exhibited
significantly higher mortality. Thus, the manuscript tile statement that
“Ly6E … confers immune control of viral disease” is supported by only
limited *in vivo* data, and gain-of-function experiments (eg. Ly6E
overexpression) were not performed. Of additional note here, tissue
tropism and virulence differ greatly among various MHV strains and
isolates whereas dose, route of infection, age, genetic background and
sex of the mice used may additionally affect disease outcome and
phenotype (*cf*. Taguchi F & Hirai-Yuki A,
<https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2012.00068>; Kanolkhar A et al,
[https://jvi.asm.org/content/
83/18/9258](https://jvi.asm.org/content/%2083/18/9258)). Observations
attributed to hematopoietic stem cell-specific Ly6E deletion could
therefore be influenced by the different genetic backgrounds of floxed
and cre mice used, and although it appears that littermates wt and ko
littermates were used in the experiments, the potentially decisive
impact of strain differences should at least have been discussed. Along
these lines, it should also be taken into account that the majority of
human coronaviruses cause respiratory symptoms, which follow a different
clinical course engaging other primary cellular mediators than the
hepatotropic murine MHV disease studied here. It therefore remains
highly speculative how the findings reported in this study will
translate to human disease and it would therefore be important to test
other routes of MHV infection and doses that have been described to
produce a more comparable phenotype to human coronavirus disease (*cf.*
Kanolkhar A et al, [https://jvi.asm.org/content/
83/18/9258](https://jvi.asm.org/content/%2083/18/9258)). Another
important shortcoming of this study is the lack of any information on
functional deficits or changes in Ly6E-deficient immune cells and how
this might relate to the phenotype observed. Overall, the *in vitro*
experiments are more convincing than the *in vivo* studies which appear
somewhat limited.

#### Significance

Despite some shortcomings, the experiments performed in this study
suggest a novel and somewhat unexpected role of Ly6E in the protection
against coronaviruses across species. These findings are of relevance
and should be further explored in ongoing research on potential
coronavirus therapies. Yet an important caveat pertains to the authors’
suggestion that “therapeutic mimicking of Ly6E action” may constitute a
first line of defense against novel coronaviruses since their own prior
work demonstrated that Ly6E can enhance rather than curtail infection
with influenza A and other viruses.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
