### Monoclonal antibodies for the S2 subunit of spike of SARS-CoV cross-react with the newly-emerged SARS-CoV-2

[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.06.980037]

#### Keywords

- Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
- SARS-CoV-2
- Spike protein
- Cross- reactive antibodies

#### Main Findings

Whole genome sequencing-based comparisons of the 2003
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and the 2019
SARS-CoV-2 revealed conserved receptor binding domain (RBD) and host
cell receptor, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). In line with
this, the authors tested cross-reactivity of murine monoclonal
antibodies (mAbs) previously generated against the SARS-CoV spike (S)
glycoprotein involved in viral entry. One of the screened mAb, 1A9, was
able to bind and cross-neutralize multiple strains of SARS-CoV, as well
as, detect the S protein in SARS-CoV-2-infected cells. mAb 1A9 was
generated using an immunogenic fragment in the S2 subunit of SARS-CoV
and binds through a novel epitope within the S2 subunit at amino acids
1111-1130. It is important to note that CD8+ T lymphocyte epitopes
overlap with these residues, suggesting that S2 subunit could be
involved in inducing both, humoral and cell-mediated immunity.

#### Limitations

The authors used previously generated mouse mAbs
against the S protein in SARS-CoV expressed in mammalian cell line.
Future experimental validation using COVID-19 patient samples is needed
to validate these findings. In addition, the results of these studies
are predominantly based on in vitro experiments and so, evaluating the
effects of the mAb 1A9 in an animal model infected with this virus will
help us better understand the host immune responses in COVID-19 and
potential therapeutic vaccines.

#### Significance

This study identified mAbs that recognize the new
coronavirus, SARS-Cov-2. These cross-reactive mAbs will help in
developing diagnostic assays for COVID-19.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by Tamar Plitt and Katherine Lindblad as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
