Review of paper titled:

**SARS-CoV-2 is sensitive to type I interferon pretreatment**

Lokugamage et al. 2020

Keywords: Treatment, cytokines, interferons

Summary

Lokugamage et al have found that SARS-CoV-2 has sensitivity to type I
interferon treatment *in vitro*. They report a significant difference in
interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) and transcription factor expression
between SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 infected VERO cells pretreated with
IFN-α. They attribute these differences to significant changes in the
viral genes ORF6 and ORF 3b, which have been reported to function as
interferon antagonist in SARS-CoV. They suggest using interferon type I
treatment as a potential pathway to further analyze in animal models and
humans.

Caveats

The study was carried out *in vitro* in an African monkey fibroblast
kidney cell line. They show sensitivity to IFN in cells infected *in
vitro* and do not mention any other pathway.

[]{#_heading=h.gjdgxs .anchor}This is extrapolated from sequence
homology of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 proteins. The study does not test
the ability of ORF6 and ORF 3b to inhibit the IFN pathway directly.

Importance of findings

Interferon type I therapies are readily available and have been tested
against several viral infections such as SARS-CoV without success.
Nevertheless, these results suggest that the difference in homologies
between viral proteins ORF6 and ORF 3b of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 is
enough to disrupt this viral defense mechanism.

[]{#_heading=h.1b4b0g63ddt .anchor}*Review by Jovani Catalan-Dibene as
part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology
Institute of the Icahn school of medicine, Mount Sinai.*
