**Analysis of Serologic Cross-Reactivity Between Common Human
Coronaviruses and SARS-CoV-2 Using Coronavirus Antigen Microarray**

***Keywords***: serum antibodies, cross-reactivity, antigen microarray

***Key Findings***

The authors of this study describe a common respiratory viral antigens
microarray that can be used to assess the cross-reactivity of antibodies
against the novel SARS-CoV-2 antigens and common human coronaviruses.
Sixty-seven (67) antigens from across subtypes of coronaviruses,
influenza viruses, adenoiruses, respiratory syncytial viruses and other
viruses, were printed onto microarrays, probed with human sera, and
analyzed. Five (5) serum samples collected before the SARS-CoV-2
outbreak were tested as part of a study that monitored acute respiratory
infection cases. Four out of five (4/5) sera samples showed high IgG
seroreactivity across the 4 common human coronaviruses. All sera showed
low IgG seroreactivity to SARS-CoV-2.

The S1 domain of the spike protein is suggested to be subtype specific
as it demonstrated very low cross-reactivity among the novel
coronaviruses (SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV) and between the novel
coronal viruses and common human coronaviruses. In contrast, the S2
domain of the spike protein and the nucleocapsid (NP) protein showed low
levels of cross-reactivity between the coronavirus subtypes, suggesting
the presence of more conserved antigenic domains. Therefore, the authors
conclude that the S1 domain is an ideal candidate for virus-specific
serologic assays.

***Importance***

This study provides insights into the potential cross-reactivity of
common human coronavirus antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 antigens.
Understanding cross-reactivity is useful because it can help in the
development of sensitive and specific serological assays that can test
for COVID-19. Additionally, studies such as this can help inform vaccine
development and indicate which antigens would be optimal to target.

***Limitations***

This study is limited by a small sample size (n=5) of serum samples that
all came from students who were part of the same college resident
community at The University of Maryland. A greatest limitation is the
lack of serum samples from COVID-19 patients. Additionally, the MFI of
2019-nCov from these naïve samples (in particular sera 4) is not zero.
This indicates that while relatively low, there is some cross-reactivity
of common human coronavirus antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 antigens,
including the S1 domain. A larger sample size and samples from SARS-CoV2
infected patients may be needed to confirm the sensitivity and
specificity of the assay.
