**Single-cell RNA-seq and V(D)J profiling of immune cells in COVID-19
patients**

Fan et al.; medRxiv \[10.1101/2020.05.24.20101238\]

*Keywords*

-   COVID-19

-   single-cell RNA sequencing

*Main findings*

To improve understanding of the cellular changes in the T and B cell
compartments of COVID-19 patients, both during and after disease, Fan et
al. analyzed lymphocytes isolated from the PBMCs of 4 severe COVID-19
patients (n=4), 6 COVID-19 recovered patients (n=6), and 3 healthy
controls (n=3). Of note, 3 recovered patients' samples were collected 7
days after a negative SARS-CoV-2 test (recovery-early stage; RE) and
absence of clinical symptoms, whereas the other 3 samples were collected
20 days after these criteria (recovery-late stage; RL). The authors used
single-cell RNA sequencing and single-cell V(D)J sequencing to perform
their analysis.

The authors identified 9 classes of T cells, which included 4
sub-classes of CD4^+^ T cells and 5 sub-classes of CD8^+^ T cells. Not
surprisingly, across severe COVID-19 patients, the proportion of T cells
was reduced, compared to healthy controls. However, differential gene
expression analysis revealed that T cells from severe COVID-19 patients
highly expressed inflammatory markers, including *IFNG* and *GZMA*.
Interestingly, when compared to these patients with active disease, RE
samples showed significant enrichment of *ICOS*+ T~H~2-like follicular
helper T cells (T~FH~), whereas RL samples showed a reportedly
significant enrichment of a cluster identified as T~H~1 cells, though
this result should be revisited for review (See *biological*
limitations). These cell types were, in fact, reduced in severe COVID-19
patients. Generally, these T cells from recovering patients continued to
indicate persistent activation and counter-regulation, based on
expression of TCR activation-associated genes, including *RNF125* and
*PELI1*. Subsequent trajectory analyses of transcriptional dynamics
indicated transition of effector CD8^+^ T cells to central memory T
cells in RL patients. Ligand-receptor analysis revealed potential
interactions between T~H~1 cells and CD14^+^ monocytes in severe
COVID-19 patients. Finally, TCR sequencing identified several VJ
combinations in high frequencies in severe COVID-19 patients, but not
others.

Within the B cell compartments across patients, the authors identified 9
clusters of naive B cells, 2 clusters of memory B cells, 2 clusters of
plasma B cells, and a cluster of plasmablasts. Of these clusters, one,
in particular, expressed genes characteristic of *FCRL5^+^* atypical
memory B cells, which have been described to be induced by viral
infections. Interestingly, ligand-receptor analyses of the clusters in
each group of patient samples identified different degrees of T~FH~ cell
and B cell interactions, suggesting different stages of T cell help for
B cell activation. Subsequent BCR characterizations revealed the
presence of homogenous monoclonal and heterogeneous clonally expanded B
cell populations; the latter population exhibited an enrichment of B
cell activation genes. The authors, then, compare across patients to
evaluate T and B cell clonality based on V(D)J recombination analyses of
RE and RL patient samples (See *technical* limitations).

Interestingly, cytokine expression analysis revealed IL-6 expression by
B cells. In contrast, B cells expressed *IL12A* in RE patients, while
effector memory CD8, proliferative CD8, and CD4 T cells and plasma B
cells highly expressed *IL16* in RL patients. The authors report
additional cytokine (and cellular) characteristics that distinguish
severe COVID-19 patients and recovering patients.

*Limitations*

*Technical*

A primary technical limitation is the sample size of this study for each
group. There is little clinical information about the patients and no
details about disease severity in patients recruited after viral
clearance. For example, age and CMV status have a huge impact on the TCR
repertoire, therefore clinical data on the different groups should be
presented. Moreover, without additional information on the clinical
management of the severe COVID-19 patients and what therapies were given
to the recovering COVID-19 patients, it is difficult to compare the
cellular changes in the immune landscapes of the COVID-19 patients
across samples. Longitudinal analysis would have been more informative
especially with regards to repertoire analysis and how expanded clones
during active infections might differentiate into particular phenotypes
after viral clearance.CD8 expression should have been included in the
violin plots, as it is usually more robust and reliable than CD4
expression.

*Biological*

An immediate concern is whether the authors mis-characterized cluster 13
as a T~H~1 cell cluster. The cluster exhibits a low expression of CD3G
and CD4. It’s neighboring clusters within the hierarchy belong to
monocyte groups, so it is unexpected that a T cell subtype would be
belong to their branch of the hierarchy tree. Consider also cluster 38,
which shows more robust expression of CD3G and NKG7 and is arranged with
the B cell group.

In addition, the authors did not highlight or discuss expression of
co-inhibitory receptors that could elucidate the heterogeneity of T cell
differentiation during COVID-19. As a result, it is difficult to truly
assess the activation status of the CD8+ cytotoxic T cells and whether
there are features of T cell exhaustion.

Finally, the distinction between naïve and some subsets of memory T
cells by scRNA analysis can be challenging. It would be important for
the authors to explore whether cluster 26, classified as a naïve CD8 T
cell cluster predominant in RL group could be actually memory cells. It
would have been important to show clonal diversity of the different
clusters.

*Significance*

In summary, Fan et al. provide a comparative analysis of lymphocyte
changes between PBMCs of patients with ongoing COVID-19 progression and
of patients recovering from the disease. Using a combination of
single-cell RNA sequencing and V(D)J recombination sequencing, the
authors describe specific changes in T and B cell subpopulations over
the course of early and late-stage recovery.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai. *
