DOI: 10.1101/2020.02.18.20024364

Title: Reduction and Functional Exhaustion of T cells in Patients with
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Keywords: T cell exhaustion; T cell lymphopenia; IL-6; IL-10; TNF-α

Summary: Based on a retrospective study of 522 COVID patients and 40
healthy controls from two hospitals in Wuhan, China, authors show both
age-dependent and clinical severity-dependent decrease in T cell numbers
with elderly patients and patients who are in ICU-care showing the most
dramatic decrease in T cell counts. Cytokine profiling of COVID patients
reveal that TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-10 are increased in infected patients
with patients in the ICU showing the highest levels. Interestingly,
these three cytokine levels were inversely correlated with T cell counts
and such inverse relationship was preserved throughout the disease
progression. Surface staining of exhaustion markers (PD-1 and Tim-3) and
flow cytometry of stained peripheral blood of 14 patients and 3 healthy
volunteers demonstrate that T cells of COVID patients have increased
expression of PD-1 with patients in ICU having the highest number of
CD8^+^PD-1^+^ cells than their counterparts in non-ICU groups.

Limitations: Compared to the number of patients, number of control (n=
40) is small and is not controlled for age. Additional data linking
inflammatory cytokines and the quality of the adaptive response
including humoral and antigen specific T cell response is much needed. T
cell exhaustion study relies on marker-dependent labeling of T cell
functionality of a very limited sample size (n=17)—a
functional/mechanistic study of these T cells from PBMCs would have
bolstered their claims.

Significance of the finding: Limited but contains interesting
implications. It is already known in literature that in the context of
acute respiratory viral infections CD8 T cells exhibit exhaustion-like
phenotypes which further underscores the importance of mechanistic
studies that can elucidate how COVID infection leads to lymphopenia and
T cell exhaustion-like phenotype.

However, as authors have noted, the data does point to an interesting
question: How these inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-10)
correlate with or affect effective viral immunity and what types of
cells produce these cytokines? Answering that question will help us
refine our targets for immune-modulatory therapies especially in
patients suffering from cytokine storms.

Summary generated by Chang Moon.
