**Longitudinal characteristics of lymphocyte responses and cytokine
profiles in the peripheral blood of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients**

*Immunology keywords*: Lymphopenia, Neutrophil to CD8 T cell ratio
(N8R), inflammatory cytokines

SUMMARY: Liu et al. enrolled a cohort of 40 patients from Wuhan
including 27 mild cases and 13 severe cases of COVID-19. They performed
a 16-day kinetic analysis of peripheral blood from time of disease
onset. Patients in the severe group were older (medium age of 59.7,
compared to 48.7 in mild group) and more likely to have hypertension as
a co-morbidity. Lymphopenia was observed in 44.4% of the mild patients
and 84.6% of the severe patients. Lymphopenia was due to low T cell
count, specially CD8 T cells. Severe patients showed higher neutrophil
counts and an increase of cytokines in the serum (IL2, IL6, IL10 and
IFNγ). The authors measured several other clinical laboratory parameters
were also higher in severe cases compared to mild, but concluded that
neutrophil to CD8 T cell ratio (N8R) as the best prognostic factor to
identify the severe cases compared to other receiver operating
characteristic (ROC).

LIMITATIONS: This was a small cohort (N=40), and two of the patients
initially included in the severe group (N=13) passed away and were
excluded from the analysis due to lack of longitudinal data. However, it
would be most important to be able to identify patients with severe
disease with higher odds of dying. It seems that the different time
points analyzed relate to hospital admission, which the authors describe
as disease onset. The time between first symptoms and first data points
is not described. It would have been important to analyze how the
different measured parameters change according to health condition, and
not just time (but that would require a larger cohort). The predictive
value of N8R compared to the more commonly used NLR needs to be assessed
in other independent and larger cohorts. Lastly, it is important to note
that pneumonia was detected in patients included in the “mild” group,
but according to the Chinese Clinical Guidance for COVID-19 Pneumonia
Diagnosis and Treatment (7th edition) this group should be considered
“moderate”.

RELEVANCE: Lymphopenia and cytokine storm have been described to be
detrimental in many other infections including SARS-CoV1 and MERS-CoV.
However, it was necessary to confirm that this dramatic immune response
was also observed in the SARS-CoV2 infected patients. These results and
further validation of the N8R ratio as a predictor of disease severity
will contribute for the management of COVID19 patients and potential
development of therapies.

*Review by Pauline Hamon as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
