Characteristics of lymphocyte subsets and cytokines in peripheral blood
of 123 hospitalized patients with 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia (NCP)

Wan et. al. **doi:** https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.10.20021832

<https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.10.20021832v1>

*Keywords:* Cytokines, lymphocyte susbets-CD8 + T, B cells, NK cells,
PBMCs, IL-6, IL-10

*Main findings:*

The authors analyzed lymphocyte subsets and cytokines of 102 patients
with mild disease and 21 with severe disease. CD8+T cells and CD4+T
cells were significantly reduced in both cohort. particularly in severe
patients. The cytokines IL6 and IL10 were significantly elevated in
severe patients as compared to mild. No significant differences were
observed in frequency of B cells and NK cells.

The authors argue that the measurement of T cell frequencies and
cytokine levels of IL6 and IL10 can be used to predict progression of
disease from Mild to severe Cov-2 infection.

*Limitations of the study*: The study demonstrates in a limited cohort
similar associations to several other reported studies. The authors
didn’t compare the changes in lymphocyte and cytokine with healthy
individual (Covid-19 Negative) rather used an internal standard value.
The recently preprint in LANCET shows The degree of lymphopenia and a
pro-inflammatory cytokine storm is higher in severe COVID-19 patients
than in mild cases, and is associated with the disease severity ^2.^

*Relevance:*\
This translational data identifies key cytokines and lymphopenia
associated with disease severity although mechanism and key cellular
players are still unknown. Higher level IL-6 production in severe
patient suggests potential role of Tocilizumab (anti-IL6R) biologic
although clinical trial will be necessary.

References:

1.  Longitudinal Characteristics of Lymphocyte Responses and Cytokine
    Profiles in the Peripheral Blood of SARS-CoV-2 Infected Patients.
    Lui et al. LANCET infectious Diseases preprint

    <https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3539682>


