### Caution on Kidney Dysfunctions of 2019-nCoV Patients

Li et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.08.20021212]

#### Keywords

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, kidney, clinical, creatinine,
proteinuria, albuminuria, CT

#### Main Findings

-   Retrospective study of 59 patients assayed key function indicators
    of the kidney–including urine protein, blood urea nitrogen (BUN),
    plasma creatinine (Cre), and renal CT scan data.

-   Found that 34% of patients developed massive albuminuria on the
    first day of admission, and 63% developed proteinuria during their
    stay in hospital; and 19% of patients had high plasma creatinine,
    especially the terminal cases.

-   CT analyses of 27 patients showed all patients to have abnormal
    kidney damage; indicate that inflammation and edema of the renal
    parenchyma very common.

#### Limitations

-   No analysis of immunity-dependent damage and cytokines in
    blood/plasma/urine. Will be worth correlating disease progression
    with cytokine production, immune activity and kidney function.

-   Extrapolating to earlier SARS-CoV studies provides the only
    rationale for viral-damage in kidney and resultant pathologic immune
    response *(understandable for this clinical study)*.

#### Significance

-   Multiple lines of evidence along this study’s finding point to the
    idea that renal impairment/injury is a key risk factor in 2019-nCoV
    patients similar to what has been reported for SARS-CoV[@doi:10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.67130.x]; this
    may be one of the major causes of virally-induced damage and
    contribute to multiorgan failure.

-   ACE2 expression in kidney proximal tubule epithelia and bladder
    epithelia [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.08.939892] support
    these clinical findings.

-   Study argues for closely monitoring kidney function, and applying
    potential interventions including continuous renal replacement
    therapies (CRRT) for protecting kidney functions as early as
    possible, particularly for those with rising plasma creatinine.

#### Credit

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
