**Novel ACE2-Independent Carbohydrate-Binding of SARS-CoV-2 Spike
Protein to Host Lectins and Lung Microbiota**

Chiodo et al.; bioRxiv \[10.1101/2020.05.13.092478\]

*Keywords*

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   Spike protein

-   Lectin

-   Siglec

-   ACE2

*Main findings*

In addition to its primary target, the ACE2 receptor on host cells, the
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and its glycosylated residues may interact with
other carbohydrate-binding receptors on innate immune cells. The results
of those interactions have not been well described; activation of
myeloid cells via these pathways may contribute to hyper-inflammation
and thrombogenesis. In order to describe potential interactions between
the glycosylated spike protein and conventional carbohydrate-binding
proteins on myeloid cells, Chiodo et al. used solid-phase immunoassays
to determine the binding specificity of the spike protein to C-type
lectins and Siglecs found on immune cells.

The authors surveyed spike protein binding to dendritic cell-specific
intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin (DC-SIGN),
Langerin, macrophage galactose binding lectin (MGL), the mannose
receptor (MR), dectin-1 (used as a negative control), macrophage
inducible calcium-dependent lectin receptor (MBL), and the sialic
acid-binding immunoglobulin-type lectins (Siglecs-3, 5, 7, 9, 10). The
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein showed strong binding to DC-SIGN and MGL, but
not to Langerin, MR, and MBL. Of note, DC-SIGN bears an immune-receptor
tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM), suggesting that it is capable of
direct signaling. The spike protein also demonstrated selective binding
to Siglec-3, 9, and 10, which bear immune-receptor tyrosine-based
inhibition motif (ITIM) and have direct immuno-suppressive effects.

The authors extended this method and concept to assess potential
interactions between SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and structural components
of pathogens that have been cited to contribute to infections secondary
to COVID-19. Additional assays using capsular polysaccharides (CPS) of
*Streptococcus pneumoniae* and lipopolysaccharides (LPS) from
*Pseudomonas aeruginosa*, *Salmonella typhimurium*, and *Shigella
flexneri* revealed that the spike protein can strongly recognize CPS
from *S. pneumoniae* serotypes Sp19F and Sp23F and LPS from *P.
aeruginosa* but not that of the two enteric pathogens.

In summary, these findings point to ACE2-independent recognition of
carbohydrate-binding elements on myeloid cells by SARS-CoV-2 spike
protein. While the downstream effects of these interactions remain
unclear, this study demonstrates that SARS-CoV-2 viral particles have
the potential to directly interact with myeloid cells, without using the
ACE2 receptor or intracellular TLRs.

*Limitations*

All experiments described in this report were *in vitro* experiments
that utilized solid-phase immunoassays. No cellular responses were
assessed. Moreover, it is unclear if these interactions are different,
if the S protein were derived from infected cells *in vivo*. Therefore,
it is difficult to conclude whether recognition of the SARS-CoV-2 spike
protein and its carbohydrate residues by lectins or Siglecs typically
found on macrophages and dendritic cells results in an immune response
that significantly contributes to COVID-19 immuno-pathology. Therefore,
the conclusions concerning the immuno-modulatory impact that these
ACE2-independent, carbohydrate-based interactions may have are
speculative.

*Significance*

It is known that carbohydrate-binding proteins on myeloid cells
facilitate the internalization of pathogens for lysosomal degradation.
So, the experiments described here may provide some context for how
monocytes and their myeloid derivatives, including monocyte-derived DCs
and macrophages, could harbor SARS-CoV-2 particles or viral proteins,
despite the lack of evidence of ACE2 receptor expression in these cells.
Albeit, it has been hypothesized that ACE2 receptor expression can be
induced by interferon in mononuclear phagocytes.

In addition to demonstrating that the spike protein is capable of
recognizing certain C-type lectins and Siglecs found on monocyte-derived
DCs and macrophages, the authors interrogated the ability for the spike
protein to interact with polysaccharide components derived from *S.
pneumoniae*, which has been documented as the most common cause of
secondary pneumonia in COVID-19 patients. Additional mechanistic studies
in cell culture and in *in vivo* models are required to verify whether
these interactions, in fact, contribute to the immuno-pathology of
COVID-19 and viral dissemination.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai. *
