### Clinical and immunologic features in severe and moderate forms of Coronavirus Disease 2019

Chen et al. *medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.16.20023903]

#### Keywords

- severe disease
- lymphocytes
- cytokines
- IFNy
- CD4 Tcells
- HLA-DR CD8
- Tcells

#### Main Findings

This study retrospectively evaluated clinical, laboratory,
hematological, biochemical and immunologic data from 21 subjects
admitted to the hospital in Wuhan, China (late December/January) with
confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. The aim of the study was to compare
‘severe’ (n=11, \~64 years old) and ‘moderate’ (n=10, \~51 years old)
COVID-19 cases. Disease severity was defined by patients’ blood oxygen
level and respiratory output. They were classified as ‘severe’ if SpO2
93% or respiratory rates 30 per min.

In terms of the clinical laboratory measures, ‘severe’ patients had
higher CRP and ferritin, alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, and
lactate dehydrogenase but lower albumin concentrations.

The authors then compared plasma cytokine levels (ELISA) and immune cell
populations (PBMCs, Flow Cytometry). ‘Severe’ cases had higher levels of
IL-2R, IL-10, TNFa, and IL-6 (marginally significant). For the immune
cell counts, ‘severe’ group had higher neutrophils, HLA-DR+ CD8 T cells
and total B cells; and lower total lymphocytes, CD4 and CD8 T cells
(except for HLA-DR+), CD45RA Tregs, and IFNy-expressing CD4 T cells. No
significant differences were observed for IL-8, counts of NK cells,
CD45+RO Tregs, IFNy-expressing CD8 T and NK cells.

#### Limitations

Several potential limitations should be noted: 1) Blood samples were
collected 2 days post hospital admission and no data on viral loads were
available; 2) Most patients were administered medications (e.g.
corticosteroids), which could have affected lymphocyte counts.
Medications are briefly mentioned in the text of the manuscript; authors
should include medications as part of Table 1. 3) ‘Severe’ cases were
significantly older and 4/11 ‘severe’ patients died within 20 days.
Authors should consider a sensitivity analysis of biomarkers with the
adjustment for patients’ age.

#### Significance

Although the sample size was small, this paper presented a broad range
of clinical, biochemical, and immunologic data on patients with
COVID-19. One of the main findings is that SARS-CoV-2 may affect T
lymphocytes, primarily CD4+ T cells, resulting in decreased IFNy
production. Potentially, diminished T lymphocytes and elevated cytokines
can serve as biomarkers of severity of COVID-19.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
