**Differential Redistribution of Activated Monocyte and Dendritic Cell
Subsets to the Lung Associates with Severity of COVID-19**

Sánchez-Cerrillo et al.; medRxiv \[10.1101/2020.05.13.20100925\]

*Keywords*

-   COVID-19

-   disease severity

-   monocyte

-   dendritic cells

-   T cell exhaustion

*Main findings*

While the growing scientific literature on the immune responses to
SARS-CoV-2 infection has highlighted several immunological markers for
COVID-19, molecular or cellular determinants of disease severity have
not yet been well-described. In this report, Sánchez-Cerrillo et al.
profiled myeloid and T cell subsets across mild (G1, n=19; whole blood),
severe (G2, n=21; whole blood), and critical COVID-19 cases (G3, n=23;
whole blood and paired bronchoscopy samples), and healthy controls
(n=22). Clinical parameters, including serum IL-6, procalcitonin (PCT),
C-reactive protein (CRP), D-dimer levels, and serum LDH, increased with
worsening disease severity.

Using high-dimensional flow cytometry, the authors assessed changes in
classical monocytes (C Mo; CD14^+^CD16^-^), transitional monocytes (T
Mo; CD14^+^CD16^+^), and non-classical monocytes (NC Mo;
CD14^lo^CD16^+^), CD14^-^CD16^hi^HLA-DR^-^ granulocytes, CD141^+^
dendritic cells (cDC1), CD1c^+^ dendritic cells (cDC2), and CD123^hi^
dendritic cells (pDC) in blood and bronchoscopy samples. While almost
all myeloid subsets in COVID-19 patients were significantly reduced in
the blood circulation compared to healthy controls (with the exception
of T Mo), no statistically significant correlations between these
myeloid subsets and disease severity were observed. Of note, the overall
sparsity of C and T Mo subsets corresponded to high levels of serum
IL-6; otherwise, there were no remarkable correlations between the
frequencies of the aforementioned subsets and inflammatory markers.
Importantly, in the bronchoscopy samples, an unpaired analysis
identified an enrichment of granulocytes and inflammatory T and NC Mo.
Importantly, a paired analysis of blood and lung samples demonstrated
that T, NC, and CD1c^+^ DCs are significantly enriched in the lung.
Collectively, these results reflect a notable recruitment of monocytes
to the lung. The authors used CD40 expression as a marker of myeloid
activation. While CD40 expression decreased with increasing disease
severity, this trend was not significant, and expression was comparable
to the cells isolated from healthy controls. Lastly, a survey of markers
associated with compromised effector function of T cells isolated from
blood and bronchoscopy samples of G3 patients showed that
CD38^+^CXCR5^+^ T cells are significantly more prevalent in the lungs
than in the blood, and differences to healthy controls were significant.

*Limitations*

*Technical*

One notable limitation are superinfections as a confounding variable;
their effects need to be accounted for with careful multi-variate
analysis and should be replicated in larger, multicenter studies.
Moreover, flow cytometry markers used in the present study can present a
biased view of cell populations, so future studies using
higher-dimensional, unbiased techniques may provide a more inclusive
view of myeloid heterogeneity in COVID-19 patients with differing
severities of disease.

*Biological*

It is important to note that almost all patients across the different
groups had been receiving concurrent therapy, including antivirals,
antibiotics, steroids, and immuno-modulators (anti-IL-6); it is unclear
when these treatments were administered, relative to the collection of
samples. Furthermore, the DC subsets defined in this report comprised
significantly small proportions (&lt; 5%) of total CD45^+^ immune cells
isolated from blood and bronchoscopy samples of COVID-19 patients.
Lastly, while T cell exhaustion was evaluated based on expression of
CD38 and CXCR5, the expression of other, more prominent co-inhibitory
receptors, including PD-1 or Tim-3, was not evaluated. Therefore, this
report would benefit from a better study of myeloid activation and T
cell exhaustion using additional markers that define activation of the
myeloid subsets, including an analysis of cytokine production, and
markers for T cell exhaustion.

*Significance*

In summary, this report offers some insight into the profiling of
different circulating cell subpopulations across various degrees of
COVID-19 severity. However, interpretations of the results should be
approached with caution, given the lack of statistical significance and
of detailed analyses of important cell groups, including better-defined
exhausted T cells. However, thus far, the findings outlined in this
report support the notion that monocyte dysfunction, involving a
pro-inflammatory state and an overall recruitment from the peripheral
blood to disease-afflicted tissues like the lung, characterizes the
immune response to COVID-19.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai. *
