**STAT2 signaling as double-edged sword restricting viral dissemination
but driving severe pneumonia in SARS-CoV-2 infected hamsters**

Boudewijns et al., bioRxiv \[10.1101/2020.04.23.056838\]

Keywords:

-   STAT2

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   animal model

-   transgenic hACE2

-   Syrian hamster

*Main findings*

In this report, the authors provide an evaluation of available animal
models, based on their ability to recapitulate characteristics of
COVID-19 as seen in humans. As of now, both non-human primate models and
transgenic hACE2 mice have limitations. An immediate type I IFN
response, for one, has been notable in these models, even though the
dysregulated inflammatory response seen in SARS-CoV-2 infection in
humans is significant in its delayed IFN response.

Here, the authors describe the efficiency of SARS-CoV-2 viral
replication and viral load in wild-type (WT), *Ifnar1*^-/-^, and
*Il28r*^-/-^ C57BL/6 mice. Results showed that wild-type mice that do
not bear the human ACE2 receptor can be infected with SARS-CoV-2,
"although inefficiently and likely transiently." Comparison with mice
without the type I IFN receptor and the type III IFN receptor showed
that all strains presented with a mild lung pathology that did not
resemble COVID-19 bronchopneumonia; notably, though, *Ifnar1*^-/-^ mice
did present with increased levels of inflammatory infiltration, compared
to the WT strain, suggesting that the active and functional IFN response
in WT mice restricts pathogenesis. Hence, the disease is not fully
replicable in mice.

The authors then propose that Syrian hamsters may be a better model,
given previous reports that they are highly susceptible to SARS-CoV-2.
WT, *STAT2*^-/-^ (loss of type I and III IFN signaling), and
*Il28r*^-/-^ (loss of type III IFN signaling) hamsters were intranasally
inoculated with SARS-CoV-2. WT hamsters carried high viral loads and
infectious titers in the lungs, and histological analysis revealed
necrotizing bronchiolitis, massive immune infiltration, and edema. These
findings reflect the histopathological characteristics of human
bronchopneumonia seen in COVID-19.

Interestingly, while viral RNA levels were not significantly different
in the lungs of these hamsters, titers of infectious virus in the lung
and viremia were highest in the *STAT2*^-/-^ hamsters, which suggests
STAT2 plays a role in deterring viral dissemination. In fact, these
hamsters had the highest levels of viral RNA in the spleen, liver, and
upper and lower GI tracts. Still, *Il28r*^-/-^ hamsters exhibited
bronchopneumonia and lung inflammation, actually to a greater extent
than *STAT2*^-/-^ hamsters, suggesting that type III IFN indeed plays an
important, protective role in restricting pathogenesis and the inclusion
of a type I IFN exacerbates bronchopneumonia. Though, IL-6, IL-10, and
IFN-ɣ were not remarkably high in the serum of infected hamsters, IL-6
and IL-10 were elevated in the lungs of infected *STAT2*^-/-^ and
*Il28r*^-/-^ hamsters.

*Limitations*

Without comparing the aforementioned three murine strains to a
transgenic hACE2 mouse strain as a "control", it is difficult to
properly assess the significance of viral replication and load in the
non-transgenic mice. A similar limitation can be identified in the
experiments involving the Syrian hamsters. A transgenic model with
hamsters would provide additional evidence to suggest that viral
replication in these animals in the absence of a human version of the
ACE2 receptor is not happenstance and is truly sufficient to reflect
COVID-19 disease. Or, alternatively, a transient knockout of the ACE2
receptor in hamsters before challenging them with SARS-CoV-2 to assess
for signs of reduced viral infection may be appropriate.

Another experiment that is absent in this study is the use of antibodies
against SARS-CoV-2 components required for viral entry as a means of
immunizing Syrian hamsters before challenging them with the virus. This,
followed by immunofluorescence or immunohistochemistry and flow
cytometry for ACE2-expressing cells, would provide further validity to
the concept of SARS-CoV-2 actually invading and replicating inside
ACE2^+^ cells in Syrian hamsters, which has been described for
SARS-CoV-1, but not yet for SARS-CoV-2.

*Significance*

Ongoing studies have identified notable limitations to the use of mice
to recapitulate human COVID-19 following SARS-CoV-2 infection. Lung
pathology is not significant. Moreover, viral dissemination to
extrapulmonary organs, including the GI tract or the liver, and viremia
are not observed. Therefore, to address this unmet need for an improved
animal model for SARS-CoV-2 infection, the present study proposed the
use of golden Syrian hamsters, which have been previously described to
better reflect SARS-CoV-1 infection than mice. The histopathological
findings do provide convincing evidence to suggest that these animals
may indeed be superior than mice to also study SARS-CoV-2 infection and
COVID-19, but the role of STAT2 - as suggested by the experiments
involving Syrian hamsters - remains to be further elucidated. The
precise cellular mechanism for viral dissemination throughout the
vasculature and to other peripheral organs is not clear, so the supposed
dual impact of STAT2 deletion in mice or in hamsters is still phenotypic
observation.

*Reviewed by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by students, postdocs,
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
