### COVID-19 infection induces readily detectable morphological and inflammation-related phenotypic changes in peripheral blood monocytes, the severity of which correlate with patient outcome

[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.24.20042655]

#### Keywords

- Monocytes
- FSC-high
- PBMC
- ACE2
- inflammatory cytokines

#### Main Findings

This study is based on flow cytometry immunophenotyping of
PBMCs from 28 patients diagnosed positive for SARS-Cov2 (COVID19). The
authors identify a population of abnormally large (FSC-hi) monocytes,
present in COVID19 patients, but absent in PBMCs of healthy volunteers
(n=16) or patients with different infections (AIDS, malaria, TB). This
FSC-hi monocytic population contains classical, intermediate and
non-classical (monocytes (based on CD14 and CD16 expression) that
produce inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF and IL-10). The authors
suggest an association of FSC-hi monocytes with poor outcome and
correlate a high percentage of FSC-low monocytes, or higher ratio of
FSC-low/hi monocytes, with faster hospital discharge.

#### Limitations

While identification of the monocytic population based
on FSC is rather robust, the characterization of these cells remains
weak. A comprehensive comparison of FSC-hi monocytes with FSC-low
monocytes from patients and healthy controls would be of high value. It
is unclear if percentages in blood are among CD45+ cells. Furthermore,
it would have been important to include absolute numbers of different
monocytic populations (in table 1 there are not enough samples and it is
unclear what the authors show).

The authors show expression of the ACE2 receptor on the surface of the
monocytes, and highlight these cells as potential targets of SARS-Cov2.
However, appropriate controls are needed. CD16 has high affinity to
rabbit IgG and it is unclear whether the authors considered unspecific
binding of rabbit anti-ACE2 to Fc receptors. Gene expression of ACE-2 on
monocytes needs to be assessed. Furthermore, it would be important to
confirm infection of monocytes by presence of viral proteins or viral
particles by microscopy.

Considering the predictive role of FSC-hi monocytes on the development
of the disease and its severity, some data expected at this level are
neither present nor addressed. Although the cohort is small, it does
include 3 ICU patients. What about their ratio of FSC-low vs FSC-hi
monocytes in comparison to other patients? Was this apparent early in
the disease course? Does this population of FSC-hi monocytes differ
between ICU patients and others in terms of frequency, phenotype or
cytokine secretion?

In general, figures need to revised to make the data clear. For example,
in Fig. 5, according to the legend it seems that patients with FSC-high
monocytes are discharged faster from the hospital. However according to
description in the text, patients were grouped in high or low levels of
FSC-low monocytes.

#### Significance

Despite the limitations of this study, the discovery of
a FSC-high monocyte population in COVID-19 patients is of great
interest. With similar implication, a the recent study by Zhou et al. [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.12.945576v1]
identified a connection between an inflammatory CD14+CD16+ monocyte
population and pulmonary immunopathology leading to deleterious clinical
manifestations and even acute mortality after SARS-CoV-2 infections.
Although the presence of these monocytes in the lungs has yet to be
demonstrated, such results support the importance of monocytes in the
critical inflammation observed in some COVID19 patients.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
