**Structural Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 and Predictions of the Human
Interactome**

[*https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.28.013789v4.full.pdf*](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.28.013789v4.full.pdf)

**Keywords:**

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   Computational structural analysis

-   RNA-protein interactions

-   Binding partner predictions

**Main findings:**

To elucidate mechanisms of viral replication within human hosts, the
authors used computational approaches to analyze the structural
properties of SARS-CoV-2 RNA and predict human proteins that bind to it.
They compared 2800 coronaviruses and 62 SARS-CoV-2 strains using
*CROSS* (Computational Recognition of Secondary Structure) and
*CROSS*align algorithms, which predict RNA structure using sequence
information and evaluate structural conservation, respectively. From
these structural comparisons, they found that the spike S protein that
interacts with the human receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)
is highly conserved amongst coronaviruses.

The study also identified over 100,000 human protein interactions with
SARS-CoV-2 utilizing *cat*RAPID, an algorithm that determines binding
potentials of proteins for RNA using secondary structure, van der Waals,
and hydrogen bonding contributions. They found that the 5’ of SARS-CoV-2
is highly structured and has a strong propensity to bind to human
proteins with known involvement in viral RNA processing. Amongst the
proteins they identified can bind to 5’, there was significant
enrichment in proteins associated with HIV infection and replication,
including ATP-dependent RNA Helicase (DDX1), A-kinase anchor protein
8-like (AKAP8L), and dsRNA-specific Editase 1 (ADARB1).  

**Limitations:**

The study was based off of computational structural predictions and
subsequent gene ontology enrichment analyses. Computational predictions
are less accurate than experimental observations, and while their
predicted binding partners prompt interesting hypotheses, they must be
experimentally confirmed. Furthermore, the gene ontology annotations
used to create their candidate list are based off prior studies and
inherently miss novel biological implications. Targeted biochemical and
structural studies that can be built off their identified targets will
be essential for elucidating viral-host complexes and informing
potential targeted drug designs.

**Significance:**

Their computational approach demonstrated findings confirmatory of other
studies in many respects. Their structural analysis findings of the high
conservation of the spike S protein amongst analyzed coronaviruses and
SARS-CoV-2 strains suggest that the spike S evolved to specifically
interact with host ACE2, supporting that the human engineering of
SARS-CoV2 is very unlikely and implicating spike S as a potential
therapeutic target. Their RNA-protein interaction predictions suggest
several relevant host-virus interactions that warrant further
investigation. If proved experimentally, their identified links to
proteins studied in the context of HIV and other viruses may be relevant
for the repurposing of existing antiviral drugs for SARS-CoV-2.

*Review by Michelle Tran as part of a project by students, postdocs, and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai.*
