**10.1101 2020.03.22.20040832 **

**Title:** Factors associated with prolonged viral shedding and impact
of Lopinavir/Ritonavir treatment in patients with SARS-CoV-2
infection** **

**Keywords**: retrospective study – lopinavir/ritonavir – viral shedding

**Main findings:**

The aim of this retrospective study is to assess the potential impact of
earlier administration of **lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r)** treatment on
the duration of viral shedding in hospitalized non-critically ill
patients with SARS-CoV-2.

The analysis shows that administration of LPV/r treatment reduced the
duration of viral shedding (22 vs 28.5 days). Additionally, if the
treatment was started within 10 days of symptoms onset, an even shorter
duration of virus shedding was observed compared to patients that
started treatment after 10 days of symptoms s onset (19 vs 27.5 days).
Indeed, patients that started LPV/r treatment late did not have a
significant median duration of viral shedding compared to the control
group (27.5 vs 28.5 days). Old age and lack of LPV/r administration
independently associated with prolonged viral shedding in this cohort of
patients.

**Limitations:**

In this non-randomized study, the group not receiving LPV/r had a lower
proportion of severe and critical cases (14.3% vs 32.1%) and a lower
proportion of patients also receiving corticosteroid therapy and
antibiotics, which can make the results difficult to interpret.

The endpoint of the study is the end of viral shedding (when the swab
test comes back negative), not a clinical amelioration. The correlation
between viral shedding and clinical state needs to be further assessed
to confirm that early administration of LPV/r could be used in treating
COVID-19 patients.

**Relevance**:

Lopinavir/ritonavir combination has been previously shown to be
efficient in treating SARS ^1,2^. While this article raises an important
point of early administration of LPV/r being necessary to have an
effect, the study is retrospective, contains several sources of bias and
does not assess symptom improvement of patients. A previously published
randomized controlled trial including 200 severe COVID-19 patients did
not see a positive effect of LPV/r administration^3^, and treatment was
discontinued in 13.8% of the patients due to adverse events. Similarly,
another small randomized trial did not note a significant effect of
LPV/r treatment^4^ in mild/moderate patients. A consequent European
clinical trial, “Discovery”, including among others LPV/r treatment is
under way and may provide conclusive evidence on the effect and timing
of LPV/r treatment on treating COVID-19.

1\. Treatment of severe acute respiratory syndrome with
lopinavir/ritonavir: a multicentre retrospective matched cohort study. -
PubMed - NCBI.
https://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.docelec.univ-lyon1.fr/pubmed/14660806.
Accessed March 30, 2020.

2\. Role of lopinavir/ritonavir in the treatment of SARS: initial
virological and clinical findings. - PubMed - NCBI.
https://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.docelec.univ-lyon1.fr/pubmed/14985565.
Accessed March 30, 2020.

3\. Cao B, Wang Y, Wen D, et al. A Trial of Lopinavir–Ritonavir in Adults
Hospitalized with Severe Covid-19. *New England Journal of Medicine*.
March 2020. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2001282

4\. Li Y, Xie Z, Lin W, et al. *An Exploratory Randomized, Controlled
Study on the Efficacy and Safety of Lopinavir/Ritonavir or Arbidol
Treating Adult Patients Hospitalized with Mild/Moderate COVID-19
(ELACOI)*. Infectious Diseases (except HIV/AIDS); 2020.
doi:10.1101/2020.03.19.20038984

**Emma Risson Edited by K Alexandropoulos**
