**Antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 in COVID-19 patients: the perspective
application of serological tests in clinical practice**

***Keywords***

Serum antibodies, IgM, IgG, immunoassay, diagnosis, seroconversion

***Key findings***

This study investigated the profile of the acute antibody response
against SARS-CoV-2 and provided proposals for serologic tests in
clinical practice. Magnetic Chemiluminescence Enzyme Immunoassay was
used to evaluate IgM and IgG seroconversion in 285 hospital admitted
patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR and in 52 COVID-19
suspected patients that tested negative by RT-PCR. A follow up study
with 63 patients was performed to investigate longitudinal effects. In
addition, IgG and IgM titers were evaluated in a cohort of close
contacts (164 persons) of an infected couple.

The median day of seroconversion for both IgG and IgM was 13 days after
symptom onset. Patients varied in the order of IgM/ IgG seroconversion
and there was no apparent correlation of order with age, severity, or
hospitalization time. This led the authors to conclude that for
diagnosis IgM and IgG should be detected simultaneously at the early
phase of infection.

IgG titers, but not IgM titers were higher in severe patients compared
to non-severe patients after controlling for days post-symptom onset.
Importantly, 12% of COVID-19 patients (RT-PCR confirmed) did not meet
the WHO serological diagnosis criterion of either seroconversion or
*&gt;* 4-fold increase in IgG titer in sequential samples. This suggests
the current serological criteria may be too stringent for COVID-19
diagnosis.

Of note, 4 patients from a group of 52 suspects (negative RT-PCR test)
had anti-SARS-Cov-2 IgM and IgG. Similarly, 4.3% (7/162) of “close
contacts” who had negative RT-PCR tests were positive for IgG and/or
IgM. This highlights the usefulness of a serological assay to identify
asymptomatic infections and/or infections that are missed by RT-PCR.

***Limitations***

This group’s report generally confirms the findings of others that have
evaluated the acute antibody response to SARS-Cov-2. However, these data
would benefit from inclusion of data on whether the participants had a
documented history of viral infection. Moreover, serum samples that were
collected prior to SARS-Cov-2 outbreak from patients with other viral
infections would serve as a useful negative control for their assay.
Methodological limitations include that only one serum sample per case
was tested as well as the heat inactivation of serum samples prior to
testing. It has previously been reported that heat inactivation
interferes with the level of antibodies to SARS-Cov-2 and their protocol
may have resulted in diminished quantification of IgM, specifically
(Xiumei Hu et al,
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.12.20034231v1).

**#### Significance**

Understanding the features of the antibody responses against SARS-CoV is
useful in the development of a serological test for the diagnosis of
COVID-19. This paper addresses the need for additional screening methods
that can detect the presence of infection despite lower viral titers.
Detecting the production of antibodies, especially IgM, which are
produced rapidly after infection can be combined with PCR to enhance
detection sensitivity and accuracy and map the full spread of infection
in communities, Moreover, serologic assays would be useful to screen
health care workers in order to identify those with immunity to care for
patients with COVID19.
