**Immune phenotyping based on neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and IgG
predicts disease severity and outcome for patients with COVID-19**

Biomarkers, cytokines, IgG, immune cells

In a cohort of 222 patients, anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgM and IgG levels were
analyzed during acute and convalescent phases (up to day 35) and
correlated to the diseases’ severity. The same was done with
neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio. High IgG levels and high
neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio in convalescence were both independently
associated to the severity of the disease. The simultaneous occurrence
of both of these laboratory findings correlated even stronger to the
diseases’ severity.

Severe cases with high neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratios had clearly
higher levels of IL-6. The authors propose that a robust IgG response
leads to immune-mediated tissue damage, thus explaining the worse
outcome in patients with overexuberant antibody response.

A main criticism is that the criteria for stratifying patients in severe
vs. non-severe are not described. The only reference related to this is
the difference between the percentage of patients who needed mechanical
ventilation, which was greater in patients with both high IgG levels and
high neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio. No patient with both low IgG levels
and low neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio was treated with mechanical
ventilation.

The proposed correlation of severity with IL-2 and IL-10 levels is not
very strong.

Furthermore, although mostly ignored in the paper’s discussion, one of
the most interesting findings is that an early increase in
anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgM levels also seems to correlate with severe disease.
However, as only median values are shown for antibody kinetics curves,
the extent of variation in acute phase cannot be assessed.

Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG levels and with neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio
predict severity of COVID-19 independently of each other. An additive
predictive value of both variables is noticeable. Importantly, an
early-on increase in anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgM levels also seem to predict
outcome.
