*Review of paper titled:*

**Atazanavir inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication and pro-inflammatory
cytokine production**

N Fintelman-Rodrigues et. al. 2020
[*https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.04.020925v1*](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.04.020925v1)

**Keywords: **

-   Repurpose drug

-   Major protease inhibitor

-   Antiretroviral

**Summary:**

Major protease (Mpro) is a targetable viral protease important in
processing polyprotein during the coronavirae replication phase.
Atazanavir (ATV), an FDA-approved HIV protease inhibitor with fewer side
effects than liponavir (currently in COVID-19 clinical trial:
NCT04307693), can reach lung tissue through intravenous administration
and suggests functional improvement in pulmonary fibrosis patients. In
this study, in vitro assays with VeroE6 and A549 cell lines demonstrate
ATV’s binding specificity for and inhibitory action on Mpro. Elevated
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels have previously been shown to
correlate with COVID-19 mortality, and measured levels were reduced in
ATV-treated cells infected with SARS-CoV-2. In addition, co-treatment
with ATV and ritonavir prevented induction of IL-6 and TNF-a in
monocytes, which was as good or better than chloroquine treatment. These
data suggest it may be possible to repurpose ATV for SARS-CoV-2.

**Limitations:**

The study was performed entirely *in vitro* in VeroE6 and A549 cells.

Comparisons were done against chloroquine, a relatively toxic compound
yet to demonstrate efficacy during in vivo testing^1–3^. Molecular
docking stimulations are limited by previous data and training sets;
while unlikely, there is a possibility that the binding properties
modeled are not reflective of the true interactions.

**Importance of findings:**

This study identifies atazanavir, a HIV protease inhibitor, as an
alternative to liponavir/ritonavir to treat SARS-CoV-2 infection. A
safer toxicity profile, localization to lung tissue, and demonstrated in
vitro efficacy to reduce cell mortality markers and inflammatory markers
in monocytes make the case that ATV is a potential candidate to prevent
SARS-CoV-2 viral replication.

References

1\. Vigerust, D. J. & McCullers, J. A. Chloroquine is effective against
influenza A virus in vitro but not in vivo. *Influenza Other Respi.
Viruses* **1**, 189–192 (2007).

2\. Dowall, S. D. *et al.* Chloroquine inhibited ebola virus replication
in vitro but failed to protect against infection and disease in the in
vivo guinea pig model. *J. Gen. Virol.* **96**, 3484–3492 (2015).

3\. Wang, J., Yu, L. & Li, K. Benefits and Risks of Chloroquine and
Hydroxychloroquine in The Treatment of Viral Diseases: A Meta-Analysis
of Placebo Randomized Controlled Trials. *medRxiv* 2020.04.13.20064295
(2020). doi:10.1101/2020.04.13.20064295

*Review by Matthew Lin as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
