**Title: **

**Comparison of SARS-CoV-2 infections among 3 species of non-human
primates**

**Immunology keywords: SARS-CoV-2, animal model**

**The main finding of the article: **

In this study, two species of old world monkeys, *Macaca mulatta* and
*Macaca facicularis*, and one of new world monkeys, *Callithrix
jacchus*, were used as potential animal models for SARS-CoV-2 infection.
4 adults and 4 old *M. mulatta* and 6 *M. facicularis* were inoculated
with 4.75 x 10^6^ pfu of virus intratracheally (4.0 ml), intranasally
(0.5 ml) and on conjunctiva (0.25 ml), and half dosage of virus was
given to 4 young *M. Mulatta*. 6 *C. jacchus* were inoculated with 1.0 x
10^6^ pfu intranasally.

The authors described clinical symptoms of fever and weight loss were
observed in 12/12 and 9/12 of *M. mulatta* and 2/6 and 5/6 of *M.
facicularis* post infection, respectively. Chest radiographs of *M.
mulatta* and *M. facicularis* revealed abnormalities in lungs in all
animals from 10 days post infection (dpi), and progressive pulmonary
infiltration was observed until 21 dpi. Along with clinical symptoms,
viral RNA was detected in nasal swabs, pharyngeal swabs, anal swabs,
feces, blood and tissues from *M. mulatta* and *M. facicularis* on 2 dpi
at high level. Most of the swabs showed a second peaks on 6-8 dpi and
viral RNA was detectable on 14 dpi in some swab samples. The analysis of
viral load in the tissues revealed higher level of viral genomes in
bronchus and trachea. Although no viral particles were detected by
ultrastructural examination, the authors described that
histopathological analysis revealed severe gross lesions on lung, heart
and stomach of *M. mulatta* and *M. facicularis*, but not *C. jacchus.*
While *C. jacchus* did not show any symptoms or viral RNA in the
tissues, lower levels of viral RNA were detected in the nasal swab
samples until 12 dpi. Virus-specific antibodies became detectable as
early as 4 dpi with gradual increase in most of the animals, however,
young *M. mulatta* showed overall lower levels of antibodies. Increase
of IL-2, IL-6 was not detected, but G-CSF, IL-1A, IL-8, IL-15, IL-18,
MCP-1, MIP-1B and sCD40L were detected in the serum from *M. mulatta*
and *M. facicularis*.

Although they refer to a decline in CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells and
monocytes in peripheral blood, the graphics shown are inconsistent with
their statements.

Overall, the study shows that, among the macaques tested, *M. mulatta*
has the highest susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection, followed by *M.
facicularis* and *C. jacchus*.

**Critical analysis of the** **study:**

The manuscript needs clearer annotation and consistency among the main
text, methods and figure legends, and overall better scientific writing.
Because of the lack of uninfected control or baseline data for immune
cell numbers in healthy monkeys, neither the decline of T cells nor
stronger B cell response in young animals can be assessed from the data.
Cytokine levels in infected animals could also have been compared with
uninfected animals, or pre-infection levels. The histopathology and TEM
figures don’t have enough resolution and lack comparison with uninfected
controls. The authors report that they did not find virus perticles in
the TEM sections.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics:**

While some of the observations of SARS-Cov2 infection in macaques were
not consistent with those of human patients, non-human primates may
still be a useful model for preclinical studies.
