**Heparin therapy improving hypoxia in COVID-19 patients - a case
series**

 

Negri et al. medRxiv preprint doi: https://
[doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.15.20067017](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.15.20067017)

*Keywords *

-   Heparin 

-   COVID-19

<!-- -->

-   Hypoxia

-   Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome

-   Critical Care

*Main Findings* 

The authors describe a small cohort of 27 COVID-19 patients treated with
enoxaparin or heparin in escalating doses (corresponding to clinical
severity) at Sirio-Libanes Hospital in Sao Paolo, Brazil. Importantly,
no control patients are included in this study. Additionally, all
patients received concomitant azithromycin and a subset received
methylprednisolone therapy. Patients had mean WHO score of 4.0 ± 1.2
(corresponding to moderate clinical severity) upon admittance.
PaO~2~/FIO~2~ was significantly increased from 254(±90) to 325(±80)
after 72 hours after the initiation of heparin therapy. 56% of patients
were discharged within 7.3 (±4.0) days. 50% of mechanically ventilated
patients were extubated within 10.3 (±1.5) days. The study reported no
fatal events or bleeding complications due to anticoagulation. The
authors suggest that early heparin therapy significantly improves
hypoxemia and may be beneficial in the management of such patients.

*Limitations* 

This is a small, single arm, retrospective study without controls and
with concomitant confounding treatments. Therefore, no definitive
conclusions can be made here.

*Significance* 

This article adds anecdotal evidence regarding coagulability in COVID-19
patients and points to the potential for anticoagulation in the right
clinical study. Given the multiple limitation, evidence herein can only
corroborate previous reports demonstrating associations between elevated
D-dimer and disease severity \[1-3\]. Additionally, this study may add
to the evidence regarding mortality benefits of heparin therapy in
severe COVID-19 \[2, 3\].

*Credit* 

*Reviewed by Joan Shang as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.* 

*References*

1\. Han H, Yang L, Liu R, et al. Prominent changes in blood coagulation
of patients with SARS- CoV-2 infection. Clin Chem Lab Med 2020 doi:
10.1515/cclm-2020-0188 \[published Online First: 2020/03/17\]

2\. Shi, C., Wang, C., Wang, H., et al. The potential of low molecular
weight heparin to mitigate cytokine storm in severe COVID-19 patients: a
retrospective clinical study. medRxiv. (2020). Doi:
https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.28.20046144

3\. Tang N, Bai H, Chen X, et al. Anticoagulant treatment is associated
with decreased mortality in severe coronavirus disease 2019 patients
with coagulopathy. J Thromb Haemost 2020 doi: 10.1111/jth.14817
\[published Online First: 2020/03/29\]
