***Title: Restoration of leukomonocyte counts is associated with viral
clearance in COVID-19 hospitalized patients***

#### Keywords

COVID-19, T cell, B cell, NK cell, IL-6, pro-calcitonin, cytokine storm

#### Main Findings

The authors collected data on 25 COVID-19 patients (n=11 men, n=14
women) using standard laboratory tests and flow cytometry. All patients
were treated with antibiotics. Twenty-four of the 25 patients were also
treated with anti-viral Umefinovir and 14 of the patients were treated
with corticosteroids. 14 patients became negative for the virus after
8-14 days of treatment. The same treatment course was extended to 15-23
days for patients who were still positive for the virus at day 14.

The authors found a negative association between age and resolution of
infection. Patients with hypertension, diabetes, malignancy or chronic
liver disease were all unable to clear the virus at day 14, though not
statistically significant.

Elevated procalcitonin and a trend for increased IL-6 were also found in
peripheral blood prior to the treatment.

A trend for lower NK cell, T cell and B cell counts in patients was also
reported. B cell, CD4 and CD8 T cell counts were only increased upon
treatment in patients who cleared the virus. NK cell frequencies
remained unchanged after treatment in all the patients.

#### Limitations

73% of the patients who remained positive for SARS-CoV2 after the 1^st^
treatment, and 43% of all patients who cleared the virus were treated
with corticosteroids. Corticosteroids have strong effects on the immune
compartment in blood^1^. The authors should have accounted for
corticosteroid treatment when considering changes in T, NK and B cell
frequencies.

Assessing if IL-6 concentrations were back to baseline levels following
treatment would have provided insights into the COVID-19 cytokine storm
biology. Patients with higher baseline levels of IL-6 have been reported
to have lower CD8 and CD4 T cell frequencies^2^. Correlating IL-6 with
cell counts before and after treatment would thus have also been of
interest. The report of the laboratory measures in table 2 is incomplete
and should include the frequencies of patients with increased/decreased
levels for each parameter.

Correction is needed for the 1^st^ paragraph of the discussion as data
does not support NK cell restoration upon treatment in patients who
cleared the virus. NK cells remain unchanged after the 1^st^ treatment
course and only seem to increase in 2 out of 6 donors after the 2^nd^
treatment course in those patients.

#### Significance

Previous reports suggest an association between disease severity and
elevated IL-6 or pro-calcitonin concentrations in COVID-19
patients^3,4^. IL-6 receptor blockade is also being administered to
patients enrolled in clinical trials (NCT04317092). This report thus
contributes to highlight elevated concentrations of these analytes in
COVID-19 patients. Mechanisms underlying the association between viral
clearance and restoration of the T cell and B cell frequencies suggests
viral-driven immune dysregulation, which needs to be investigated in
further studies.

1\. The CHI Consortium *et al.* Effects of Systemically Administered
Hydrocortisone on the Human Immunome. *Sci Rep* **6**, 23002 (2016).

2\. Zhao, Z. *et al.* *Clinical and Laboratory Profiles of 75
Hospitalized Patients with Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 in Hefei,
China*. http://medrxiv.org/lookup/doi/10.1101/2020.03.01.20029785 (2020)
doi:10.1101/2020.03.01.20029785.

3\. Chen, X. *et al.* *Detectable serum SARS-CoV-2 viral load (RNAaemia)
is closely associated with drastically elevated interleukin 6 (IL-6)
level in critically ill COVID-19 patients*.
http://medrxiv.org/lookup/doi/10.1101/2020.02.29.20029520 (2020)
doi:10.1101/2020.02.29.20029520.

4\. Lippi, G. & Plebani, M. Procalcitonin in patients with severe
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19): A meta-analysis. *Clinica Chimica
Acta* **505**, 190–191 (2020).

Review by Bérengère Salomé as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.
