### An Effective CTL Peptide Vaccine for Ebola Zaire Based on Survivors' CD8+ Targeting of a Particular Nucleocapsid Protein Epitope with Potential Implications for COVID-19 Vaccine Design

#### Keywords

Peptide vaccine; Ebolavirus; nucleocapsid; epitope; vaccine
design; microsphere

Vaccination of mice with a single dose of a 9-amino-acid peptide NP44-52
located in a conserved region of ebolavirus (EBOV) nucleocapsid protein
(NP) confers CD8+ T-cell-mediated immunity against mouse adapted EBOV
(maEBOV). Bioinformatic analyses predict multiple conserved CD8+ T cell
epitopes in the SARS-CoV-2 NP, suggesting that a similar approach may be
feasible for vaccine design against SARS-CoV-2.

The authors focus on a site within a 20-peptide region of EBOV NP which
was commonly targeted by CD8+ T cells in a group of EBOV survivors
carrying the HLA-A\*30:01:01 allele. To justify the testing of specific
vaccine epitopes in a mouse challenge setting, the authors cite known
examples of human pathogen-derived peptide antigens that are also
recognized by C57BL/6 mice, as well as existing data surrounding known
mouse immunogenicity of peptides related to this EBOV NP region. Testing
3 distinct 9mer peptides over an 11 amino-acid window and comparing to
vaccination with the 11mer with a T-cell reactivity readout demonstrated
that optimizing peptide length and position for immunogenicity may be
crucial, likely due to suboptimal peptide processing and MHC-class-I
loading.

Vaccines for maEBOV challenge studies were constructed by packaging
NP44-52 in d,l poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid microspheres. CpG was also
packaged within the microspheres, while Monophosphoryl Lipid A (a TLR4
ligand) was added to the injectate solution. A second peptide consisting
of a predicted MHC-II epitope from the EBOV VG19 protein was added using
a separate population of microspheres, and the formulation was injected
by intraperitoneal administration. The vaccine was protective against a
range of maEBOV doses up to at least 10,000 PFU. Survival was
anticorrelated with levels of IL6, MCP-1 (CCL2), IL9, and GM-CSF, which
recapitulated trends seen in human EBOV infection.

While HLA-A\*30:01:01 is only present in a minority of humans, the
authors state that MHC binding algorithms predict NP44-52 to be a strong
binder of a set of more common HLA-A\*02 alleles. The authors predict
that a peptide vaccine based on the proposed formulation could elicit
responses in up to 50% of people in Sudan or 30% of people in North
America.

SARS-CoV-2 NP, meanwhile, has conserved regions which may provide
peptide-vaccine candidates. Scanning the SARS-CoV-2 NP sequence for
HLA-binding 9mers identified 53 peptides with predicted binding affinity
&lt; 500nM, including peptides that are predicted to bind to HLA-class-I
alleles of 97% of humans, 7 of which have previously been tested
*in-vitro*.

The results support previously appreciated correlations between certain
cytokines and disease severity, specifically IL6 which relates to
multiple trial therapies. Prediction of HLA-class-I binding of
SARS-CoV-2 NP peptides suggests the plausibility of a peptide vaccine
targeting conserved regions of SARS-CoV-2 NP although further validation
in previously infected patient samples will be essential.

#### Credit

*Review by Andrew M. Leader as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
