**Structural basis to design multi-epitope vaccines against Novel
Coranvirus 19 (COVID19) infection, the ongoing pandemic emergency: an in
silico approach**

S Srivastava et. al. 2020
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.01.019299v1.full.pdf

**Keywords: **

-   In silico

-   Epitope prediction

-   Immunoinformatics

**Main Findings:**

This study reports the identification of in-silico screened epitopes
capable of binding MHCI (CTL), MHCII (HTL), and B cells with high
immunogenicity that can be formulated with Ochocerca volvulus
activation-associated secreted protein-1 (Ov-ASP-1) adjuvant into two
multi-epitope vaccines (MEVs) for SARS-CoV-2. CTL, HTL, and B cell
linear epitopes were identified, scored, and percentile-ranked utilizing
respective IEDB server tools. SARS-CoV-2 polyprotein, surface (S)
glycoprotein, envelope (E) protein, membrane (M) protein, nucleocapsid
(N) protein, and several open reading frame proteins were screened in
silico for potential CTL, HTL, and B cell epitopes. CTL epitopes were
identified by the “MHC-I Binding Predictions” IEDB tool with default
parameters of 1^st^, 2^nd^, and C-term amino acids; epitopes were ranked
by total score combining proteasomal cleavage, TAP transport, and MHC
scores combined. HTL epitopes were identified by the “MHC-II Binding
Predictions” IEDB tool, which gives a percentile rank by combining 3
methods (viz. combinatorial library, SMM\_align & Sturniolo, score
comparison with random five million 15-mer peptides within SWISSPROT). B
cell linear epitopes were identified by the “B Cell epitope Prediction”
IEDB tool, which searches continuous epitopes based on propensity scales
for each amino acid.

From these proteins, 38 CTL top percentile ranked epitopes, 42 HTL top
scorers, and 12 B cell top scorers were used for further analysis.
Candidates were then analyzed for epitope conservation analysis (number
of protein sequences containing that particular epitope), toxicity,
population coverage, and overlap with one another. 9 epitopes that
overlapped among all three types (CTL, HTL, and B cell linear) were then
analyzed for interaction with HLA binders, showing stable binding with
A\*11:01, A\*31:01, B3\*01:01, and B1\*09:01, and TAP, demonstrating
ability to pass from cytoplasm into the ER. Two MEVs were formulated
using the top CTL and HTL epitopes, which were then analyzed for
physicochemical properties, allergenicity, and potential to induce
IFN-gamma production. Final 3D modeling, refinement, and discontinuous B
cell epitope analysis were completed to optimize the space-occupancy of
the MEVs. This rendering was used to assess docking with TLR3, the major
domain used by Ov-ASP-1. Codon adaptation optimization yielded cDNA
capable of high expression in mammalian host cells. Taken together, this
in-silico study produced two MEVs containing CTL, HTL, and B cell
epitopes capable of eliciting potent cell-mediated and humoral responses
for HLA types representing up to 96% (SD 31.17) of the population.
Further in vitro study is warranted to confirm its clinical potential.

**Limitations:**

In silico approaches are based upon models, however accurate, that make
certain assumptions and contain biases inherent to training data.
Synthesizing and testing a few candidates alongside their initial
findings would make this method far more robust. It remains to be seen
the efficacy of screened epitopes and corresponding multi-epitope
formulations function in vitro and in vivo models.

**Significance:**

This study reports an in silico approach to producing multi-epitope
vaccines that can produce potent adaptive immune responses. Utilizing
protein databases, established protein modeling, folding, and docking
algorithms, as well as population analysis, the team identifies 38
MHCI-binding, 42 MHCII-binding, and 12 B cell epitopes that can be
linked with Ov-ASP-1 adjuvant to form stable proteins. These proteins
are shown to dock well with HLA-alleles, TAP, TLR3, and to induce
IFN-gamma responses.

*Review by Matthew Lin as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*

Notes
=====

11 Protein sequences

CTL, HTL, B cell epitopes

-   MHCI (IC50s, percentile ranked; immunogenicity) 38 shortlisted

-   MHCII (affinity, percentile ranked) 42 shortlisted

-   Population coverage (score is % of population express HLA to which
    epitope binds)

-   B cell epitope (hydrophilicity, flexibility, accessibility, turns,
    exposed surface, polarity, antigenic propensity correlated with
    location in protein score) 12 shortlisted

Overlapping (partial and complete)

-   Conservation analysis (number of protein sequences containing
    particular epitope)

-   Toxicity (highly toxic vs non-toxic short peptides algorithm derived
    from datasets from Swiss-Prot)

-   **Overlap of all three (multiple sequence alignment) 9 shortlisted
    (2 CTL, 4 HTL, 3 B cell)**

*ONLY PARTIAL OR COMPLETE OVERLAP EPITOPES ARE NOW SCREENED BELOW*

CTL/HTL HLA allele binders molecular docking

-   Tertiary structure modeling (HLA structures based off IPD-IMGT/HLA;
    de novo structure prediction for epitopes)

-   Molecular docking (PatchDock) for respective HLA binders

CTL TAP interaction molecular docking

*NOW GOING BACK TO USING ALL THE TOP HITS NOT JUST THE OVERLAPPING
SEQUENCES?*

MEV – 38 CTL and 42 HTL then used to design MEV with EAAK and GGGS
linkers, with adjuvant at N-term (Fig 2)

-   ProtParam used for physicochemical property analysis of designed MEV
    (table 5)

-   IFNg screen (will the epitope induce IFNg?) 20 CTL and 20 HTL
    shortlisted

-   Allergenicity (AlgPred analysis) both CTL and HTL MEVs
    non-allergenic

-   Physiochemical analysis

3D refinement

-   Validation (RAMPAGE to show that residues are optimized for favored
    confirmation and minimized for outlier regions)

-   Linear and Discontinuous B cell epitope prediction (from refined
    structure) CTL MEV has 17 linear and 2 discontinuous; HTL MEV has 17
    and 4 respectively

TLR3 interaction molecular docking with ectodomain of TLR3 (PatchDock)
stable complex formation tendency for both MEVs

cDNA analysis of sequence for cloning and expression

-   Codon adaptation tool cDNA predicted to have high expression in
    mammalian host cell line


