Review of paper titled:

**Virus shedding patterns in nasopharyngeal and fecal specimens
of1COVID-19 patients**

Zhang et al. 2020

Keywords: Viral shedding, testing specimens.

**Summary **

The authors tested feces, urine, plasma, nasal/throat swabs (respiratory
samples) for SARS-CoV-2 virus load analysis by qPCR several days after
illness onset (DAO).

-   All plasma samples were negative (n=56).

-   Two urine samples were positive from patients that had severe
    disease and were positive at least 16-21 DAO (n=56).

-   10 of 12 cases (83.3%) tested positive for fecal samples.

-   14 of 21 cases (66.7%) were positive for respiratory samples.

-   Respiratory samples were positive for 21 DAO, nevertheless fecal
    samples were still positive.

-   Median duration of virus shedding was 10.0 days in respiratory
    samples

-   For fecal samples median shedding was 22.0 days for the feces

-   Viral titers of respiratory samples peaked at six to nine DAO. and
    at 14-18 DAO for fecal samples, and the highest virus titers at the
    peak was significantly higher for feces (105.8 copies/ml, mean 5623
    copies/ml) than of respiratory samples (106.363 copies/ml, mean 2535
    copies/ml).

Importance of findings and caveats

Notably, these data reflect viral RNA and there is mention of infectious
particles. Without these data, it is difficult to ascertain the
significance of this paper. While these data demonstrate that the
duration of fecal viral RNA shedding is significantly prolonged when
compared to viral RNA shedding from the respiratory tract, it is
critical for the field to ascertain if this represents infectious
virions or not. If viable virus were to be isolated from the GI tract,
that would indeed be very concerning for potential feco-oral
transmission of SARS-COV2. As such, this paper does not establish this
important fact.

*Review by Jovani Catalan-Dibene and validated by Saurabh Mehandru as
part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology
Institute of the Icahn school of medicine, Mount Sinai.*
