### COVID-19 early warning score: a multi-parameter screening tool to identify highly suspected patients

Song et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.05.20031906]

#### Keywords

- retrospective
- electronic health records
- blood counts
- diagnostic
- prognostic
- modeling

#### Main Findings

The aim of this study was to identify diagnostic or prognostic criteria
which could identify patients with COVID-19 and predict patients who
would go on to develop severe respiratory disease. The authors use EMR
data from individuals taking a COVID-19 test at Zhejiang hospital, China
in late January/Early February. A large number of clinical parameters
were different between individuals with COVID-19 and also between
‘severe’ and ‘non-severe’ infections and the authors combine these into
a multivariate linear model to derive a weighted score, presumably
intended for clinical use.

#### Limitations

Unfortunately, the paper is lacking a lot of crucial information, making
it impossible to determine the importance or relevance of the findings.
Most importantly, the timings of the clinical measurements are not
described relative to the disease course, so it is unclear if the
differences between ‘severe’ and ‘non-severe’ infections are occurring
before progression to severe disease (which would make them useful
prognostic markers), or after (which would not).

#### Significance

This paper is one of many retrospective studies coming from hospitals in
China studying individuals with COVID-19. Because of the sparse
description of the study design, this paper offers little new
information. However, studies like this could be very valuable and we
would strongly encourage the authors to revise this manuscript to
include more information about the timeline of clinical measurements in
relation to disease onset and more details of patient outcomes.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
