### Title 

**Disparate temperature-dependent virus – host dynamics for SARS-CoV-2
and SARS-CoV in the human respiratory epithelium**[]{#keywords .anchor}

V’kovski et al., bioRxiv/2020.04.27.062315
\[https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.27.062315\]

*Keywords*

-   Upper and lower respiratory tracts

-   Temperature

-   Interferons

[]{#main-findings .anchor}*Main Findings*

The anatomical distance between the upper and lower respiratory tracts,
as well as their different ambient temperatures (32-33°C and 37°C,
respectively) could influence viral replication and subsequent immune
responses, as previously reported in studies with influenza and
rhinovirus infection \[1, 2\]. By employing an *in vitro* model of
SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV infection of human airway epithelial cells
(hAEC) originated from three different donors, this study aimed to
investigate the effect of temperature on virus-host innate immune
response dynamics in the epithelial lining of the human respiratory
tract.

The authors show comparable SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 replication at 37°C.
However, when assessing viral replication efficiency at 33°C, SARS-CoV-2
infection resulted in 100-fold higher viral titers compared SARS-CoV, or
SARS-CoV-2 replication at 37°C. Data in transcriptional signature after
infection revealed that at 37°C, SARS-CoV-2-infection triggered earlier
and greater changes in the transcriptional program compared to infection
at 33°C. Among the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) after
SARS-CoV-2-infection, the authors identified immunological mediators,
such as chemokines and cytokines (*CXCL10, CXCL11, TNFSF13B, and
CCL5/RANTES*), Interferon Stimulating Genes (ISG, such as *OASL*), as
well as type I and III interferon genes. The authors tested SARS-CoV-and
SARS-CoV-2 replication sensitivity to exogenous type I or type III
interferon (IFN-I/III), and found a drastic reduction in viral load
after hAEC infection.

Altogether, these results suggest a temporal, temperature-dependent gene
expression profile that is inversely associated with SARS-CoV-2
replication which may account for the high replicative capacity of
SARS-CoV-2 in the upper airways.

[]{#limitations .anchor}*Limitations*

There is considerable variability between donors with regards to viral
replication at 37°C and 33°C (specially in Figure 1a), and it is unclear
how many times experiments were performed.

The observation that temperature influences both viral replication and
innate immune responses is essentially correlative. Further functional
studies evaluating whether the temperature-dependent viral replication
is a direct consequence of a delayed interferon response will be
required. The variability between samples may also explain the fact that
authors didn’t detect any DEGs in hAEC infected with SARS-CoV.

It was recently proposed that ACE2 can be an ISG \[3\] induced
specifically by IFNa, favoring SARS-CoV-2 cell entry. It would be
interesting to indicate the level of ACE2 expression after IFNs
exogeneous treatment of hAEC in the different culture temperatures.

Moreover, it would be important to perform immunofluorescence analysis
showing colocalization of ACE2 and SARS nucleocapsid protein.

*Significance*

This study provides insights about the impact of microenvironmental
temperature on virus-host interactions. Enhanced replication of
SARS-CoV-2 at 33°C, may influence its replication in the upper
respiratory tract and transmissibility in comparison to SARS-CoV.

[]{#credit .anchor}*Credit*

*Reviewed *by Alessandra Soares-Schanoski* as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*

*References*

1\. Holwerda, M., et al., *Determining the Replication Kinetics and
Cellular Tropism of Influenza D Virus on Primary Well-Differentiated
Human Airway Epithelial Cells.* Viruses, 2019. **11**(4).

2\. Foxman, E.F., et al., *Temperature-dependent innate defense against
the common cold virus limits viral replication at warm temperature in
mouse airway cells.* Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, 2015. **112**(3): p.
827-32.

3\. Carly G.K. Ziegler, S.J.A., Sarah K. Nyquist, Ian M. Mbano, Vincent
N., et al., *SARS-CoV-2 receptor ACE2 is an interferon-stimulated gene
in human airway epithelial cells and is detected in specific cell
subsets across tissues.* Cell, 2020.
