**Structure-based modeling of SARS-CoV-2 peptide/HLA-A02 antigens**

<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.004176>

*Immunology keywords*:

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, comparative, homology, peptide,
modeling, simulation, HLA-A, antigen

*Summary of Findings*:

-   The authors utilize homology modeling to identify peptides from the
    SARS-CoV-2 proteome that potentially bind HLA-A\*02:01.

-   They utilize high-resolution X-ray structures of peptide/MHC
    complexes on Protein Data Bank, substitute homologous peptides with
    SARS-CoV-2 peptides, and calculate MHC/SARS-CoV-2 peptide Rosetta
    binding energy.

-   They select MHC/SARS-CoV-2 complex models with highest binding
    energy for further study and publish models in an online database
    (https://rosettamhc.chemistry.ucsc.edu).

*Limitations*:

-   The authors only utilize computational methods and predicted
    SARS-CoV-2 peptides must be validated experimentally for
    immunogenicity and clinical response.

-   Due to computational burden and limited availability of high
    resolution X-ray structures on PDB, authors only simulate 9-mer and
    10-mer peptide binding to HLA-A\*02:01.

-   Since the authors compare select existing X-ray structures as a
    starting point, backbone conformations that deviate significantly
    between test and template peptides are not captured. Furthermore,
    Rosetta modeling protocols do not capture all possible structures
    and binding energy scoring does not fully recapitulate fundamental
    forces.^1,2^

*Importance/Relevance:*

-   The authors identify and publish high-scoring SARS-CoV-2 peptides
    that may direct a targeted, experimental validation approach toward
    a COVID-19 vaccine.

-   The authors utilize Rosetta simulation to further filter results
    from NetMHCpan 4.0, supporting machine learning prediction with
    structural analysis.

-   The authors develop RosettaMHC, a computationally efficient method
    of leveraging existing X-ray structures for identification of
    immunogenic peptides.

*References:*

1.  Bender, B. J., Cisneros, A., 3rd, Duran, A. M., Finn, J. A., Fu, D.,
    Lokits, A. D., . . . Moretti, R. (2016). Protocols for Molecular
    Modeling with Rosetta3 and RosettaScripts. Biochemistry, 55(34),
    4748-4763. doi:10.1021/acs.biochem.6b00444

2.  Alford, R. F., Leaver-Fay, A., Jeliazkov, J. R., O'Meara, M. J.,
    DiMaio, F. P., Park, H., . . . Gray, J. J. (2017). The Rosetta
    All-Atom Energy Function for Macromolecular Modeling and Design. J
    Chem Theory Comput, 13(6), 3031-3048. doi:10.1021/acs.jctc.7b00125

*Review by Jonathan Chung as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
