### Reinfection could not occur in SARS-2 CoV-2 infected rhesus macaques

Bao et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.13.990226]

#### Keywords

- SARS-CoV-2
- viral load
- reinfection
- relapse
- non-human primate model

#### Main Findings

This study addresses the issue or acquired immunity after a primary
COVID-19 infection in rhesus monkeys. Four Chinese rhesus macaques were
intratracheally infected with SARS-CoV-2 and two out of the four were
re-infected at 28 days post initial infection (dpi) with the same viral
dose after confirming the recovery by the absence of clinical symptoms,
radiological abnormalities and viral detection (2 negative RT-PCR
tests). While the initial infection led the viral loads in nasal and
pharyngeal swabs that reach approximately 6.5 log~10~ RNA copies/ml at 3
dpi in all four monkeys, viral loads in the swabs tested negative after
reinfection in the two reinfected monkeys. In addition, the necropsies
from a monkey (M1) at 7 days after primary infection, and another monkey
(M3) at 5 days post reinfection, revealed the histopathological damages
and viral replication in the examined tissues from M1, while no viral
replication as well as no histological damages were detected in the
tissues from M3. Furthermore, sera from three monkeys at 21 and 28 dpi
exhibited neutralizing activity against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro, suggesting
the production of protective neutralizing antibodies in these monkeys.
Overall, this study indicates that primary infection with SARS-CoV-2 may
protect from subsequent exposure to the same virus.

#### Limitations

In human, virus has been detected by nasopharyngeal swabs until 9 to 15
days after the onset of symptoms. In the infected monkeys in this study,
virus were detected from day 1 after the infection, declining to
undetectable level by day 15 post infection. It may suggest that there
is a faster viral clearance mechanism in monkeys, therefore the
conclusions of reinfection protection for humans need to be carefully
considered. In addition, only two monkeys were re-infected in this study
and the clinical signs of these monkeys were not similar: M3 did not
show weight loss and M4 showed relatively higher fever on the day of
infection and the day of re-challenge.

#### Significance

This study showed clear viral clearance and no indications of relapse or
viremia after a secondary infection with SARS-CoV-2 in a Chinese rhesus
macaque model. These results support the idea that patients with full
recovery (two negative RT-PCR results) may also be protected from
secondary SARS-CoV-2 infection. Recovered patients may be able to
reintegrate to normal public life and provide protective serum perhaps
even if having had a mild infection. The results are also encouraging
for successful vaccine development against SARS-CoV-2.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
