**Title**: []{#page-title .anchor}Level of IL-6 predicts respiratory
failure in hospitalized symptomatic COVID-19 patients

**Summary**: Hospitals around the world being overwhelmed due the
COVID-19 pandemic calls for determination of predictive markers which
would accurately predict patient outcome at an early stage. Severe COVID
complications often include acute respiratory distress syndrome.

The authors analyse clinical and laboratory findings in 40 COVID
patients. 13 required mechanical ventilation, and 27 did not. Age,
comorbidities, radiological findings, respiratory rate or qSofa score
(mortality prediction score upon sepsis) did not discriminate between
both groups. However, all patients requiring intubation were male, and
the pulse as well as several laboratory parameters correlated with the
risk of respiratory failure. The strongest correlation was found to be
with serological IL-6. Elevated IL-6 was found to increase the risk of
respiratory failure by a factor of 22.

**Critical analysis**: The value of 80pg/mL of IL-6 is identified as
decisive, as 92% of patients who reached this cut-off required
intubation 0-4 days afterwards. The study must be extended to a larger
cohort, however, to perhaps identify a more precise cut-off.

Moreover, the causality between IL-6 and respiratory distress remains
unclear. Understanding the mechanisms behind these correlations could
pinpoint new therapies to prevent respiratory failure.

**Relevance to current epidemic**: Foreseeing respiratory distress at an
early stage in admitted COVID patients could allow hospitals to better
manage their resources, both human and material.
