**Single-cell atlas of a non-human primate reveals new pathogenic
mechanisms of COVID-19**

Han L. et al.  \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.04.10.022103\]

#### Keywords

-   scRNAseq

-   ScATACseq

-   ACE2

-   TMPRSS2

-   Non-human primate

-   interleukin

#### Main Findings

-   Study profiled nine tissues from cynomolgus monkey (NHP model with
    no COVID19 infection) by scRNAseq and analyzed ACE2 and TMPRSS2
    expression findings to existing human scRNA datasets. Also conducted
    scATACseq on kidney tissue specifically to map chromatin
    accessibility relevant to above genes.

-   ACE2 and TMPRSS2 predominantly detected in ciliated, club cells and
    type2 alveolar cells, as well as proximal tubule cells of kidney,
    and cholangiocytes in liver (agreeing with human data). Some
    differences exist in ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression between human and
    NHP samples, especially in liver but also in lung.

-   Correlation analyses show immune-modulatory genes such as TMEM27,
    IDO2, DNAJC12, and ANPEP co-expressed with ACE2 upregulation in
    kidney. Also, IL6R gene expression correlated well with ACE2 in
    proximal tubule cells (agreeing with human data).

-   scATACseq of kidney cells determined open chromatin regions with
    discrete ACE2 peaks in proximal tubule cells S3, and TF motifs for
    these regions were enriched in STAT1/STAT3 and IRF1 binding sites.

#### Limitations

-   Variations in ACE2/TMPRSS2 gene expression between NHP and human
    tissues could arise due to differences in digestion and/or
    processing protocols hence biasing reads. Will be important to
    analyze protein expression for relevant genes in NHP tissue to
    confirm such differences.

-   Study requires ex vivo co-culture experiments with kidney tubule
    epithelial cells and COV-2 to ascertain IL6R signaling axis is
    linked to ACE upregulation and/or impacts downstream alarmin/PAMP
    release.

#### Significance

-   #### Single-cell NHP profiling is relevant and useful considering monkeys are a preferred model for studying the effectiveness of drug treatments and of vaccines against COVID-19

-   #### scATACseq results with IRF1/STAT1 accessibility suggests a link between paracrine interferon signaling + IL6 and enhanced ACE2 expression in kidney that can exacerbate COVID-19 severity due to increased viral entry and dissemination.

-   #### Findings supports other reports of cytokine-induced tissue damage in kidneys of COVID-19 patients, as well as provide additional support for anti-IL6R strategies such as Tocilizumab. 

*Reviewed by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
