**Title**: First Clinical Study Using HCV Protease Inhibitor Danoprevir
to Treat Naïve and Experienced COVID-19 Patients

**Keywords**: Clinical study – HCV protease inhibitor – Danoprevir –
Ritonavir – Covid19 treatment

**Main findings**:

The authors treated 11 Covid-19 patients with Danoprevir, a
commercialized HCV protease inhibitor^1(p4)^, boosted by ritonavir^2^, a
CYP3A4 inhibitor (which enhances the plasma concentration and
bioavailabilty of Danoprevir). Two patients had never received
anti-viral therapy before (=naïve), whereas nine patients were on
Lopinavir/Ritonavir treatment before switching to Danoprevir/Ritonavir
(=experienced). The age ranged from 18 to 66yo.

Naïve patients that received Danoprevir/Ritonavir treatment had a
decreased hospitalization time. Patients treated with
Lopinavir/Ritonavir did not have a negative PCR test, while after
switching to Danoprevir/Ritonavir treatment, the first negative PCR test
occurred at a median of two days.

**Limitations**:

The results of the study are very hard to interpret as there is no
control group not receiving Danoprevir/Ritonavir treatment. This was
especially true in naïve patients who seemed to have more mild symptoms
before the start of the study and were younger (18 and 44yo) compared to
the experienced patients (18 to 66yo). The possibility that the patients
would have recovered without Danoprevir/Ritonavir treatment cannot be
excluded.

**Relevance**:

The authors of the study treated patients with Danoprevir, with the
rational to that this is an approved and well tolerated drug for HCV
patients^2^, and that it could also target the protease from SARS-CoV-2
(essential for viral replication and transcription). Indeed, homology
modelling data indicated that HCV protease inhibitors have the highest
binding affinity to Sars-Cov2 protease among other approved drugs ^3^.

While this study shows that the combination of Danoprevir and Ritonavir
might be beneficial for Covid-19 patients, additional clinical trials
with more patients and with better methodology (randomization and
control group) are needed to make further conclusions.

1\. Seiwert SD, Andrews SW, Jiang Y, et al. Preclinical Characteristics
of the Hepatitis C Virus NS3/4A Protease Inhibitor ITMN-191 (R7227).
*Antimicrob Agents Chemother*. 2008;52(12):4432-4441.
doi:10.1128/AAC.00699-08

2\. Xu X, Feng B, Guan Y, et al. Efficacy and Safety of All-oral, 12-week
Ravidasvir Plus Ritonavir-boosted Danoprevir and Ribavirin in
Treatment-naïve Noncirrhotic HCV Genotype 1 Patients: Results from a
Phase 2/3 Clinical Trial in China. *J Clin Transl Hepatol*.
2019;7(3):213-220. doi:10.14218/JCTH.2019.00033

3\. Nguyen DD, Gao K, Chen J, Wang R, Wei G-W. Potentially highly potent
drugs for 2019-nCoV. *bioRxiv*. February 2020:2020.02.05.936013.
doi:10.1101/2020.02.05.936013
