**Title: **

Low doses of radiation therapy increase the immunosuppressive profile of
lung macrophages via IL-10 production and IFNy/IL-6 suppression: a
therapeutic strategy to counteract lung inflammation?

**Doi:** 10.1101/2020.05.11.077651

**Keywords: **

Acute respiratory distress syndrome, lung inflammation, low dose
irradiation, chest radiation therapy, nerve- and airway-associated
macrophages, lung macrophages.

**The main finding of the article: **

The pathophysiology of severe pneumonia and acute respiratory syndrome
coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-induced is related with an overproduction of
early response proinflammatory cytokines, leading to an increased
vascular permeability and high risk of death. Chest radiation therapy
using low doses (&lt;1 Gy) was beneficial in the past to treat
pneumonia, exerting anti-inflammatory effects in the lung, however, the
involved mechanism remained uncertain. The authors proposed that
macrophages could be involved in the counteracting lung inflammation
after irradiation, and investigated this through in vitro studies with
human and mouse lung macrophages, and in vivo pneumonia models in mice.

Normal human lung cells were collected from 3 donors (n=2 to lung
cancer, n=1 to benign disease). From these cells, macrophages were
isolated and stimulated for 6 hours with Poly(I:C) (1µg/mL) and were
irradiated using 0.5 or 1 Gy doses, or non-irradiated. In relation to
the murine model, C57BL/6 mice received intratracheally two doses (100µg
and 50µg – two consecutive days) of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or
toll-like receptor 3 ligand Poly(I:C). Six hours after the second
intranasal dose, 0.5 or 1 Gy of irradiation was applied to the animal
thorax. After this procedure, spectral computed tomography (CT) of the
mice chest at different time points was performed. Flow cytometry was
performed for human lung macrophages and for mouse lung cells. Cytokines
concentrations in culture supernatants from *in vitro* experiments were
profiled.

The quantification of supernatants demonstrated that both doses of
irradiation, 0.5 and 1Gy, significantly decreased IFNγ and increased
IL-10 secretion in human lung macrophages stimulated with Poly(I:C) in
comparison to non-irradiated Poly (I:C)-stimulated cells. The flow
cytometry analysis showed higher percentage of human lung macrophages
producing IL-10 after 0.5 Gy irradiation dose when compared with the
other conditions, and decrease IL-6 production after both doses of
irradiation in comparison to non-irradiation cells. In the in vivo
pneumonia mouse model, the authors showed that low dose thorax
irradiation of mice treated with LPS or Poly(I:C), resulted in increased
IL-10 production by a distinct group of macrophages dubbed nerve- and
airway-associated macrophages (NAMs) compared to non-irradiated mice. In
addition, the lung CT scans revealed that lungs irradiated at 1Gy
presented less tissue density, indicating lower pulmonary inflammatory
process in the lung.

**Critical analysis of the study: **

The data presented in this manuscript is quite limited, its mostly
restricted to production of IL-10, IFN-g and IL-6 (one experiment) by
lung macrophages without any other functional analysis. The only data on
lung inflammation are the CT scans, adding tissue histology would have
improved the analysis. The description of experimental details is
incomplete, and the number of human tissues analyzed in the *in vitro*
culture is very small. Given its potential importance in the mechanisms
of SARS-CoV-2 lung pathology, the role of alveolar macrophages and
interstitial macrophages could have been explored in more depth. The
authors could had analyzed others pro- and anti-inflammatory markers,
like TNFα, IL-1β, IL-1Ra, IL-8, as well as mediators involved in lung
inflammation resolution such as VEGF-A. The manuscript has a
comprehensive discussion on the effects of chest irradiation on lung
inflammation.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics: **

Research indicates that “cytokine storm”, an uncontrolled
over-production of inflammatory markers which, in turn, sustain a
systemic inflammatory response, is mostly responsible for the occurrence
of severe acute respiratory syndrome. This manuscript shows that low
dose thorax radiation is able to direct the pro-inflammatory lung cell
responses into an anti-inflammatory response. Therefore, this therapy
could be useful to mitigate lung inflammatory process in Covid-19. A
point to highlight is that side and adverse effects must be well
evaluated before a possible irradiation treatment in an infectious
condition such as COVID-19.
