**Blood single cell immune profiling reveals that interferon-MAPK
pathway mediated adaptive immune response for COVID-19**

Review by Matthew D. Park

Keywords: COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, PBMC, single cell, MAPK

*Main findings*

The authors performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) of
peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from whole blood samples of
COVID-19 patients (n=10). Data was compared to scRNAseq of samples
collected from patients with influenza A (n=1), acute pharyngitis (n=1),
and cerebral infarction (n=1), as well as, three healthy controls.
COVID-19 patients were categorized into those with moderate (n=6),
severe (n=1), critical (n=1), and cured (n=2) disease. Analysis across
all COVID-19 disease levels revealed 56 different cellular subtypes,
among 17 immune cell types; comparisons between each category to the
normal controls revealed **increased proportions of CD1c^+^ dendritic
cells, CD8^+^ CTLs, and plasmacytoid dendritic cells and a decrease in
proportions of B cells and CD4^+^ T cells**.

**TCR sequencing revealed that greater clonality is associated with
milder COVID-19 disease**; BCR sequencing revealed that COVID-19
patients have circulating antibodies against known viral antigens,
including EBV, HIV, influenza A, and other RNA viruses. This may suggest
that the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection elicits production of
antibodies against known RNA viruses.

Excluding enriched pathways shared by COVID-19 patients and patients
with other conditions (influenza A, acute pharyngitis, and cerebral
infarction), the authors identified the **interferon-MAPK signaling
pathway as a major response to SARS-CoV-2 infection**. The authors
performed quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) for interferon-MAPK signaling genes: *IRF27, BST2,*
and *FOS*. These samples were collected from a separate cohort of
COVID-19 patients (critical, n=3; severe, n=3; moderate, n=19; mild,
n=3; and cured, n=10; and healthy controls, n=5). Notably, consistent
with the original scRNAseq data, *FOS* showed up-regulation in COVID-19
patients and down-regulation in cured patients. **The authors propose
that *FOS* may be a candidate marker gene for curative COVID-19
disease**.

*Limitations*

The sample size of this study is limited. To further delineate
differences in the immune profile of peripheral blood of COVID-19
patients, a greater sample size is needed, and longitudinal samples are
needed, as well. A better understanding of the immunological
interactions in cured patients, for example, would require a profile
before and after improvement.

Moreover, the conclusions drawn from this scRNAseq study point to
potential autoimmunity and immune deficiency to distinguish different
severities of COVID-19 disease. However, this requires an expanded
number of samples and a more robust organization of specific immune cell
subtypes that can be compared across different patients. Importantly,
this criterion is likely needed to ensure greater specificity in
identifying markers for COVID-19 infection and subsequent immune
response.

*Relevance*

At the single-cell level, COVID-19 disease has been characterized in the
lung, but a greater understanding of systemic immunological responses is
furthered in this study. Type I interferon is an important signaling
molecule for the anti-viral response. The identification of the
interferon-MAPK signaling pathway and the differential expression of
MAPK regulators between patients of differing COVID-19 severity and
compared to cured patients may underscore the importance of either
immune deficiency or autoimmunity in COVID-19 disease.
