**Title:** Shotgun Transcriptome and Isothermal Profiling of SARS-CoV-2
Infection Reveals Unique Host Responses, Viral Diversification, and Drug
Interactions

Butler *et al.* \[bioRxiv, @doi: 10.1101/2020.04.20.048066\]

**Key words:** loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP), RNA-Seq,
ACE2 expression, qRT-PCR

**Summary:**

The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has created an urgent need for widely available
diagnostic tools to detect and understand host immune responses. This
study introduces a fast SARS-CoV-2 detection test from swabs, based on
colorimetric reverse transcriptase loop-mediated isothermal
amplification (RT-LAMP) assay technology, which amplifies viral RNA.
Results were validated using both qRT-PCR and total RNA sequencing. The
study also introduces a new large-scale total RNA sequencing platform
which enables comprehensive transcriptome profiling of the virus, host
and other microbiomes. Both technologies were used to analyze samples
from 735 confirmed/suspected COVID-19 patients, as well as 62
environmental swabs from NYC subway.

Through a viral evolution map based on the total RNA-sequencing data,
the study identified a novel subclade (A2-25563) enriched in NYC cases
with likely origin in western Europe. Overall, the host transcriptome
profiles revealed 216 qRT-PCR positive and 519 negative samples.
Integrative analysis together with the viral load levels revealed that
samples with high viral load exhibit increased expression of ACE2
(SARS-CoV-2 receptor), interferon pathway (SHFL, IFI6, IFI27, and IFIT1)
and HERC6 gene and decreased expression of olfactory receptor pathway
and TMPRSS-11B gene. Since ACE2 expression can be increased by
pharmacologic intake of angiotensin enzyme inhibition (ACEI) or
angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB), additional analysis of an
observational cohort of 8,856 suspected COVID-19 patients showed a
strong positive association between ACEI/ARB usage and SARS-CoV-2
infection.

**Limitations:**

While the host transcriptome analyses were performed on individuals who
tested positive and negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection and other
subgroups based on viral load, the influence of other clinical
characteristics/phenotypes (e.g. age, symptoms, severity) were not
discussed. It would also been useful to have the characteristics of the
735 confirmed/suspected COVID-19 patients.

**Findings implication:**

During this pandemic, large-scale rapid testing is key in tracking,
surveillance and containment of the viral spread. To aid diagnostics,
this study identified a fast LAMP assay that was applied to both naso/
oropharyngeal swabs and environmental samples and validated against gold
standard qRT-PCR approach. Furthermore, total RNA-Seq profiling enabled
the pursuit of multiple aspects of virus genetic features and evolution,
host response, co-infections and other possible correlations between
virus/host genotype and clinical phenotype. This is one of the first
studies based on sequencing data from SAR-CoV-2 patients and will serve
as an important resource to the research community.

*Reviewed by Myvizhi Esai Selvan as part of a project by students,
postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of
Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
