### A brief review of antiviral drugs evaluated in registered clinical trials for COVID-19

Belhadi et al. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.18.20038190]

#### Keywords

- Clinical trials
- COVID-19
- SARS CoV-2
- 2019-nCoV
- SARS Cov-2
- Hcov-19
- novel coronal virus
- new corona virus
- antiviral drugs

#### Main Findings

Summary of clinical trials registered as
of March7, 2020 from U.S, Chinese, Korean, Iranian and European
registries. Out of the 353 studies identified, 115 were selected for
data extraction. 80% of the trials were randomized with parallel
assignment and the median number of planned inclusions was 63 (IRQ,
36-120). Most frequent therapies in the trials included; 1) antiviral
drugs \[lopinavir/ritonavir (n-15); umifenovir (n=9); favipiravir (n=7);
redmesivir (n=5)\]; 2) anti-malaria drugs \[chloroquine (n-11);
hydroxychloroquine (n=7)}; immunosuppressant drugs \[methylprednisolone
(n=5)\]; and stem cell therapies (n=23). Medians of the total number of
planned inclusions per trial for these therapies were also included.
Stem cells and lopunavir/ritonavir were the most frequently evaluated
candidate therapies (23 and 15 trials respectively), whereas remdesivir
was only tested in 5 trials but these trials had the highest median
number of planned inclusions per trial (400, IQR 394-453). Most of the
agents used in the different trials were chosen based on preclinical
assessments of antiviral activity against SARS CoV and MERS Cov corona
viruses.

The primary outcomes of the studies were clinical (66%); virological
(23%); radiological (8%); or immunological (3%). The trials were
classified as those that included patients with severe disease only;
trials that included patients with moderate disease; and trials that
included patients with severe or moderate disease.

#### Limitations

The trials evaluated provided incomplete information:
23% of these were phase IV trials but the bulk of the trials (54%) did
not describe the phase of the study. Only 52% of the trials (n=60)
reported treatment dose and only 34% (n=39) reported the duration. A lot
of the trials included a small number of patients and the trials are
still ongoing, therefore no insight was provided on the outcome of the
trials.

#### Significance

Nonetheless, this review serves as framework for
identifying COVID-19 related trials, which can be expanded upon as new
trials begin at an accelerated rate as the disease spreads around the
world.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by K Alexandropoulos as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
