DOI: 10.1101/2020.04.16.045690

Title: The scRNA-seq expression profiling of the receptor ACE2 and the
cellular protease TMPRSS2 reveals human organs susceptible to COVID-19
infection

Keywords: ACE2, TMPRSS2, scRNA-seq expression profiling

Summary: Using publicly available scRNA-seq data of healthy human
samples from 31 organs, the authors compare the gene expression levels
of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 of each organ. The authors categorized each organ as
susceptible to SARS-CoV infection based on its expression of ACE2 and
further stratified 11 susceptible organs into three levels of risk for
infection based on each organ’s TMPRSS2 expression (i.e. TMPRSS2
expression ratio &gt;20% was defined as level 1). The authors claimed
that for the first time, their scRNA-seq analysis showed the brain, gall
bladder and fallopian tube as vulnerable to COVID-19 infection in
addition to confirming previous molecular and clinical data implicating
other organs susceptible to SARS-CoV2 (i.e. nose, heart, intestines,
etc.).

Limitations: The article advances its risk stratification strategy based
on a couple of naïve assumptions that are being actively contested in
literature: a) ACE2/TMPRSS2-mediated viral entry is the only route used
by SARS-CoV2 to infect cells and b) ACE2/TMPRSS2 expression is stable in
systemic inflammatory contexts such as COVID-19. Furthermore, their risk
stratification does not consider the immune contexture of each organ.
For instance, while several papers have suggested that reproductive
organs (i.e. testes) are also susceptible to SARS-CoV2 based on their
ACE2/TMPRSS2 expression, there are no reported clinical manifestations
of COVID-19 in those organs. Lastly, even though they were using
scRNA-seq data available from 13 different publications, their paper
does not discuss how they accounted for variations in scRNA-seq
protocols as well as how they normalized each data set for comparative
analysis.

Significance of the finding: Mostly confirmatory. While it is nice to
see that there were clinical cases describing the adverse effect of
COVID-19 for most of the eleven organs identified as SARS-CoV2
susceptible in this study, previous studies have already shown most of
these organs to be susceptible to SARS-CoV2 using various approaches
(including scRNA-seq analysis). Furthermore, their risk stratification
strategy is simplistic as it doesn’t seem to take account of recent
findings on SARS-CoV2’s alternative mechanisms of entry as well as
reported clinical manifestations of COVID-19.

*Review by Chang Moon as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the\
Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine, Mount Sinai.*
