**Lactate dehydrogenase - A Risk Factor of Severe COVID-19 Patients: A
Retrospective and Observational Study**

Han et al., medRxiv \[10.1101:2020.03.24.20040162\]

Keywords:

-   lactate dehydrogenase

-   COVID-19

-   risk factor

*Main findings*

This report is a retrospective analysis of clinical data collected from
47 patients with confirmed COVID-19 disease (median age 64.91 years; 26
males; 24 severe cases). Upon admission, patients were assessed with an
APACHE II score (mortality risk) and SOFA score (organ system
dysfunction). Among other clinical parameters, including lymphocyte
count, CRP, and enzyme levels, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level
was most positively correlated with APACHE II and SOFA. Additionally,
strong positive correlations were found between LDH and observational
assessment of severity of pneumonia and of underlying coronary disease.
Notably, serum LDH was also positively correlated with other univariate
parameters, including troponin and CRP. Meanwhile, LDH was negatively
correlated with lymphocyte count across different subsets, including
CD4^+^ and CD8^+^ T cells.

*Limitations*

Several studies have previously identified serum LDH as a predictive
biomarker for COVID-19 progression (see references). Therefore, it is
important to note that while LDH correlates with disease severity, it
does not suffice as a reason for severe disease, so whether it serves as
a robust **predictive** factor is not thoroughly supported; an
explanation is still needed between the release of LDH from infected
cells and disease severity.

*Significance*

The identification of serum LDH as a predictive biomarker does glean
insight into possible links between its release into the circulation and
immune response to SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. It is important to note that
LDH release itself requires significant damage to and permeabilization
of plasma membranes, as observed in pyroptosis and necrotic cell death.
Therefore, this report, and others like it, warrants investigation into
the link between SARS-CoV-2 infection and potential necrosis or
pyroptosis of infected host cells. It is important to note that previous
studies concerning biomarkers for SARS-CoV-1 disease have also
identified serum LDH as an important correlative factor with disease
severity^1^. And subsequent investigations have studied the activation
of inflammasome structures involved in pyroptosis in the presence of
SARS-CoV^2-3^.

*Reviewed by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by students, postdocs,
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*

*References*

1\. Tsui PT, Kwok ML, Yuen H, Lai ST. Severe acute respiratory syndrome:
clinical outcome and prognostic correlates. *Emerg Infect Dis*.
2003;9(9):1064–1069. doi:10.3201/eid0909.030362

2\. Yue, Y, Nabar, NR, Shi, C. *et al.* SARS-Coronavirus Open Reading
Frame-3a drives multimodal necrotic cell death. *Cell Death
Dis* 2018;**9, **904. doi: 10.1038/s41419-018-0917-y

3\. Shi, C., Nabar, N.R., Huang, N. *et al.* SARS-Coronavirus Open
Reading Frame-8b triggers intracellular stress pathways and activates
NLRP3 inflammasomes. *Cell Death Discov.* 2019;**5, **101. doi:
10.1038/s41420-019-0181-7
