### Type 2 and interferon inflammation strongly regulate SARS-CoV-2 related gene expression in the airway epithelium 

Sajuthi S.P. et al.  \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.04.09.034454\]

#### Keywords

-   SARS-CoV-2

-   scRNAseq

-   Type 2 Inflammation

-   Nasal airway epithelium

-   Interleukin

#### Main Findings (Immunological)

-   Analyzed nasal airway epithelial transcriptome data from 695
    asthmatic and healthy children (GALA II study, no COVID-19) to
    determine WGCNA networks. TMPRSS2 gene was contained in a set of
    three highly correlated networks exhibiting strong enrichments for
    IL13-induced mucus secretory cell genes and canonically Type-2
    inflammation pathways. ACE2 gene was correlated with interferon
    response and cytotoxic immune signaling eigengene enrichment.

-   TMPRSS2 upregulated and ACE2 downregulated upon rIL13 treatment in
    muco-ciliary air-liquid interface (ALI) cell culture; supporting
    transcriptome analyses. Also, scRNAseq data from tracheal airway
    epithelial cultures chronically stimulated with IL-13 also showed
    congruent changes in TMPRSS2 and ACE2.

-   Used metagenomic analysis from dataset to find 18 asymptomatic
    children with four different coronaviral sequences (CoV; OC43, JKU1,
    229E, NL63). Compared 11 subjects with highest CoV infection to 571
    CoV-naïve subjects, with 37 rhinovirus (HRV)-infected subjects
    serving as ‘basal/normal respiratory virus’ comparators.

-   Induction of cytotoxic immune response was considerably higher in
    CoV-infected subjects, compared to HRV-infected individuals. IL10,
    IL1B, IFNG, IFNA2, STAT1, and ACE2 upregulation shared for CoV or
    HRV infections. IL6 upregulated and genes associated with CD8 T
    cells, DCs and NK cells specifically enriched in CoV infections.

-   Identified eQTLs for ACE2 and TMPRSS2 using GALA II dataset and used
    multi-variable modeling to estimate the relative contribution of
    these factors to population variation in these genes (not reviewed
    here).

#### Limitations

-   Dataset is large, but having asthmatic young subjects as part of
    GALA II study might skew WGCNA analyses to enrich for T2 biomarkers
    and secretory phenotype genes. Will be important to replicate
    analyses in another independent non-COPD/allergy/asthma dataset and
    reconcile ACE2+TMPRSS2 correlation with T2 emergence.

-   Provides rationale for increased cytotoxic responses in CoVID-19
    cases, but no explanation for ACE2 and TMPRSS2 anti-correlative
    trends in epithelia upon T2 inflammation.

-   Will need ALI experiments with IL13 addition in CoV-2 infection
    models to ascertain changes in ACE2/TMPRSS2 to be consistent with
    existing patient data for COVID-19.

#### Significance

-   Study strongly suggests airway epithelial TMPRSS2 expression is
    highly upregulated upon Type 2 inflammation, specifically by IL13
    stimulation of epithelia. Also, ACE2 expression (and therefore viral
    infectivity) is inextricably linked to interferon response and could
    sabotage initial inflammation.

-   Changes in immune contextures observed in asymptomatic CoV+/HRV+
    subjects suggest remodeling of airway epithelia even after viral
    resolution, which can impact future infections with COVID-19 and
    outcomes.

-   Results showing IL10, IL1B, IL6 enrichment and cytotoxic programs
    (CD8, NK, DC) in CoV+ subjects supports other concurrent studies
    showing their importance in cytokine storm and points to broader
    conserved inflammatory pathways worth targeting in COVID-19.

#### 

#### Credit

*Reviewed by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
