DOI: 10.1101/2020.03.01.20029074

Title: Lymphopenia predicts disease severity of COVID-19: a descriptive
and predictive study

Keywords: Lymphopenia

Summary: Based on a retrospective study of 162 COVID patients from a
local hospital in Wuhan, China, the authors show an inverse correlation
between lymphocyte % (LYM%) of patients and their disease severity. The
authors have also tracked LYM% of 70 cases (15 deaths; 15 severe; 40
moderate) throughout the disease progression with fatal cases showing no
recovery of lymphocytes ( &lt;5%) even after 17-19 days post-onset. The
temporal data of LYM % in COVID patients was used to construct a
Time-Lymphocyte% model which is used to categorize and predict patients’
disease severity and progression. The model was validated using 92
hospitalized cases and kappa statistic test was used to assess agreement
between predicted disease severity and the assigned clinical severity (k
= 0.49).

Limitations: Time-Lymphocyte % Model (TLM) that authors have proposed as
a predictive model for clinical severity is very simple in its
construction and derives from correlative data of 162 patients. In order
for the model to be of use, it needs validation using a far more robust
data set and possibly a mechanistic study on how COVID leads to
lymphopenia in the first place. In addition, it should be noted that no
statistical test assessing significance of LYM % values between disease
severities was performed.

Significance of the finding: This article is of limited significance as
it simply reports similar descriptions of COVID patients made in
previous literature that severe cases are characterized by lymphopenia.

Summary generated by Chang Moon.
