**SARS-CoV-2 infection does not significantly cause acute renal injury:
an analysis of 116 hospitalized patients with COVID-19 in a single
hospital, Wuhan, China**

<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.19.20025288>

*Immunology keywords*:

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, kidney, clinical, longitudinal

*Summary of Findings*:

-   Clinical data from 116 hospitalized CoVID-19 patients analyzed over
    4 weeks for correlation with renal injury. Comorbidities included
    chronic renal failure (CRF) in 5 patients (4.3%).

-   10.8% of patients with no prior kidney disease showed elevations in
    blood urea or creatinine, and 7.2% of patients with no prior kidney
    disease showed albuminuria.

-   Patients with pre-existing CRF underwent continuous renal
    replacement therapy (CRRT) alongside CoVID-19 treatment. Renal
    functions remained stable in these patients.

-   All 5 patients with CRF survived CoVID-19 therapy without
    progression to ARDS or worsening of CRF.

*Limitations*:

-   Renal injury biomarkers in patients with incipient kidney
    abnormalities not tabulated separately, making overall data hard to
    interpret. It will be critical to separately examine kidney function
    (BUN, urine creatinine and eGFR) in patients that developed any
    kidney abnormalities (7.2\~10.8% of cohort).

-   No information on type of CoVID-19 therapy used across cohort; will
    be useful to correlate how treatment modality influences kidney
    function (and other parameters).

-   Invokes previous clinical-correlation studies that indicate low
    instances of kidney damage \[1,2\], but those studies did not track
    longitudinal urine samples for acute renal injury markers and viral
    shedding.

-   CRRT in patients with CRF is standard therapy irrespective of
    CoVID-19 status; it will be important to compare clinical parameters
    of these patients (n=5) with virus-naïve CRF patients (none in this
    study) to make any meaningful conclusions.

*Importance/Relevance:*

-   This study argues that renal impairment is uncommon in CoVID-19 and
    not associated with high mortaility, in stark contrast with a
    concurrent study (<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.08.20021212> ).
    If supported by further studies, this argues kidney impairment is
    secondary to cytokine storm/inflammation-induced organ failure, and
    not due to direct viral replication.

-   Will be important to comprehensively characterize large-datasets of
    CoVID-19 patients to conclude if kidney function actively disrupted
    due to viral infection.

*References:*

1.  Wang D, Hu B, Hu C, et al. *JAMA* 2020; published online Feb 7.

    doi: 10.1001/jama.2020.1585

2.  Guan WJ, Ni ZY, Hu Y, et al. *MedRvix* 2020;\
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.06.20020974.

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
