SARS-CoV-2 invades host cells via a novel route: CD147-spike protein

Key words: spike protein, viral entry, CD147, SARS-CoV-2

Summary:

The authors propose a novel mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 viral entry through
the interaction of the viral spike protein (SP) and the immunoglobulin
superfamily protein CD147 (also known as Basigin). Using an in-house
developed humanized antibody against CD147 (maplazumab), they show that
blocking CD147 decreases viral replication in Vero E6 cells. Using
surface plasmon resonance (SPR), ELISA, and Co-IP assays, they show that
the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 directly interacts with CD147. Lastly,
they utilize immune-election microscopy to show spike protein and CD147
localize to viral inclusion bodies of Vero E6 cells.

Critical Analysis:

The authors claim that an anti-CD147 antibody (Meplazumab) inhibits
SARS-CoV-2 replication by testing cell growth and viral load in cells
infected with SARS-CoV-2, however there are key pieces of this
experiment that are missing. First, the authors fail to use a
non-specific antibody control. Second, the authors claim that viral
replication is inhibited, and that they test this by qPCR, however this
data is **not shown.** To further prove specificity, the authors should
introduce CD147 to non-susceptible cells and show that they become
permissive.

The authors claim that there is a direct interaction between CD147 and
SP through SPR, ELISA, and Co-IP, and this data seems generally
convincing. The electron microscopy provides further correlative
evidence that SARS-CoV-2 may interact with CD147 as they are both found
in the same viral inclusion body. A quantification of this data would
make the findings more robust.

Finally, the data in this paper lacks replicates, error bars, and
statistics to show that the data are reproducible and statistically
significant.

Implications:

It has been shown in various studies that SARS-CoV-2 binds to the cell
surface protein ACE2 for cell entry, yet ACE2 is highly expressed in
heart, kidney, and intestinal cells, raising the concern that blocking
ACE2 would result in harmful side effects. \[1\] CD147 on the other hand
is highly expressed in various tumor types, inflamed tissues, and
pathogen infected cells, suggesting that the inhibition of CD147 would
not result in major side effects. \[2,3\] The research in this paper has
resulted in an ongoing clinical trail in China to test the safety and
efficacy of anti-CD147 Meplazumab to treat COVID-19. (ClinicalTrails.gov
identifier NCT04275245).

1\. Kosugi T, Maeda K, Sato W, Maruyama S, Kadomatsu K. CD147
(EMMPRIN/Basigin) in kidney diseases: from an inflammation and immune
system viewpoint. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015; 30: 1097-1103.

2\. Su H, Yang Y. The roles of CyPA and CD147 in cardiac remodelling. EXP
MOL PATHOL. 2018; 104: 222-226

3\. Weidle U, Scheuer W, Eggle D, Klostermann S, Stockinger, H.
Cancer-related Issues of CD147. Cancer Genomics and Proteomics. 2010; 7:
157-170
