**Targeted Immunosuppression Distinguishes COVID-19 from Influenza in
Moderate and Severe Disease**

Mudd et al.; medRxiv \[10.1101/2020.05.28.20115667\]

*Keywords*

-   COVID-19

-   influenza

-   single-cell RNA sequencing

-   monocytes

-   cytokines

*Main findings*

Despite similarities in presentation at onset, differences in the
underlying immunopathology of SARS-CoV-2 infections and other
respiratory infections, like influenza, remain largely unknown. In this
pre-print, Mudd et al. performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq)
of PBMCs from COVID-19 patients and influenza patients, in order to
delineate potential key differences between the aforementioned
respiratory infections. Analyses were performed using a cohort of 79
COVID-19 patients (n=79; 35 of whom developed acute respiratory
failure), 26 influenza patients (n=26; 7 of whom developed acute
respiratory failure), and 15 healthy controls (n=15

First, plasma cytokine levels were evaluated in the 79 COVID-19
patients, 26 influenza patients, and 8 of the healthy controls. Cytokine
analyses identified a reduced production of GM-CSF, IFN-ɣ. and IL-9 but
a significant elevation of IL-6 and IL-8 across all COVID-19 patients,
compared to influenza patients. In fact, certain chemokines and others
were more up-regulated in influenza patients, as opposed to COVID-19
patients. The authors subsequently performed a computational assessment
of whether certain groups (or modules) of cytokines were predictive of
one of two infections.

Interestingly, two modules, containing G-CSF, IFN-ɣ, IL-2R, IL-6, IL-8,
and MCP-1 (among several others), were inversely correlated with an
increased likelihood of being SARS-CoV-2-positive. The authors observe
that while higher generalized inflammation is characteristic of
influenza patients, COVID-19 patients exhibit a marked elevation of a
distinct subset of cytokines. Using intubation status and expiration as
end-markers of disease severity, the authors found that IL1-RA and IL-6
were associated with COVID-19 disease severity and predictive of poor
outcome, both with and without comparison to influenza patients.
Collectively, these results suggest that only a selection of
inflammatory cytokines are predictive of disease severity, while
cytokine storm syndrome is not necessarily descriptive of all COVID-19
patients; these characterizations distinguish COVID-19 immunopathology
from that of influenza.

PBMCs had been collected from 79 COVID-19 patients (n=79; 35 of whom
developed acute respiratory failure), 26 influenza patients (n=26; 7 of
whom developed acute respiratory failure), and 15 healthy controls
(n=15). A comparison of the peripheral immune landscape identified
several primary differences. Though both groups of patients exhibited
pan-lymphopenia, generally, COVID-19 patients had more
antibody-secreting plasmablasts and activated CD4^+^ T cells than
influenza patients or controls. However, COVID-19 patients showed
significantly reduced numbers of circulating monocytes, in line with
previous reports that inflammatory monocytes are recruited to the lung
and reduced in the periphery in COVID-19 patients. Notably, both these
peripheral monocytes and CD4^+^ T cells in COVID-19 patients showed
reduced HLA-DR expression, indicative of reduced activation.

A closer interrogation of potential immuno-regulatory cell types (as a
compensatory response to the hyper-inflammation observed in COVID-19
patients) via scRNAseq (of 3 COVID-19 patients \[n=3\], 3 influenza
patients \[n=3\], and 1 healthy control) revealed a significantly
suppressed type I interferon (IFN) response among B cells, CD8^+^ T
cells, regulatory T cells, plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), and
especially among monocytes. In contrast, his pathway and its associated
downstream cascades were enriched in influenza patients. Notably,
pathways enriched in COVID-19 patients were glucocorticoid and metabolic
stress pathways across multiple cell types, but most significantly in
monocytes.

*Limitations*

*Technical*

The limited patient sample size of the scRNAseq analysis should be
noted.

*Biological*

Without additional clinical information, it is difficult to know whether
relative time-points (at which blood samples were collected and cytokine
analyses were performed) may have been different, so an analysis of
patients at different stages of their disease course may be a
confounding factor. Indeed, the authors make some reference to this
potential limitation, in addition to age, in their linear regression
models.

In addition, the authors use HLA-DR expression to evaluate myeloid cell
activation; other markers should be used to validate the observation of
reduced HLA-DR expression. This reduced activation phenotype, in
combination with the fewer number of monocytes in the periphery and
down-regulated IFN response, provides the basis for the authors'
conclusion that an overall suppressed monocyte response underscores
COVID-19 immunopathology, when compared to the immune profile of
influenza patients. However, it is important to consider the recruitment
of the inflammatory subset of monocytes to the lung or other
extrapulmonary organs as a reason for the reduced number in the
vasculature.

*Significance*

Through a much needed comparison, Mudd et al. provide a closer look at
the cellular differences between the immune response to COVID-19 and
influenza. Using scRNAseq, the authors identify notable changes in
monocyte transcriptional activity and number and in cytokine profiles
that suggest potential associations with disease severity of COVID-19,
but not influenza. In particular, the identification of a glucocorticoid
response in monocytes is worth further investigation, given previous
claims towards the use of immunosuppressive agents to treat COVID-19.

*This review was undertaken by Matthew D. Park as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai. *
