**Clinical observations of low molecular weight heparin in relieving
inflammation in COVID-19 patients: a retrospective cohort study**

***Key words***

Heparin, IL-6, cytokine storm, anti-inflammatory, anti-coagulant

***Key findings***

The authors investigated the use of a commercially available form of
heparin, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), as a therapeutic drug for
patients with COVID-19. Previous studies showed that in addition to its
anticoagulant properties, LMWH exerts anti-inflammatory effects by
reducing the release of IL-6 and counteracting IL-6.

This was a retrospective single-center study conducted in Wuhan, China.
Forty-two (42) hospitalized patients with coronavirus pneumonia were
included, of which 21 underwent LMWH treatment (heparin group) and 21
did not (control). The general characteristics of the two groups of
patients were statistically comparable. Both control and LMWH had the
same hospitalization time and there were no critical cases in either
group.

This study found that treatment with LMWH significantly reduced IL-6
levels in patients in the heparin group compared to the control group.
However, LMWH treatment did not have an effect on the levels of other
inflammatory factors: CRP, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, TNF-α, and IFN-γ. Compared
with the control group, patients in the heparin group had a
significantly increased percentage of lymphocytes after treatment,
further suggesting that LMWH treatment has anti-inflammatory effects and
can reduce the lymphopenia associated with COVID-19.

Consistent with other studies in COVID-19 patients, they found that LMWH
treatment can improve hypercoagulability. D-dimer and FDP levels
(biomarkers of coagulation) in the heparin group significantly decreased
from baseline after treatment, whereas there was no significant change
in levels for the control group. Of note however, patients in the
heparin group had a significantly higher level of D-dimer and FDP at
baseline compared to the control group.

***Importance***

Many studies have shown that severely ill COVID-19 patients have
significantly higher levels of IL-6 compared to patients with mild cases
and it has been proposed that progression to severe disease may be
caused by lymphopenia and cytokine storms. The anti-inflammatory effects
of heparin may help prevent or reverse a cytokine storm caused by the
virus and thus delay COVID-19 progression and improve overall condition
in patients. The pleiotropic effects of heparin may have a greater
therapeutic effect than compounds that are directed against a single
target, such as an anti-IL-6 therapy. This is because COVID-19 patients
commonly have complications such as coagulopathy and endothelial
dysfunction leading to cardiac pathology that may be mitigated by
heparin treatment (Li J, et.al; Wojnicz et.al).

***Limitations***

This study is limited by a small sample size (n=44) and a single-center
design. Double-blinded, randomized, placebo controlled clinical trials
of LMWH treatment are needed to understand the possible benefit of the
treatment. Additionally, this study was unable to control for the dose
and days of treatment of LMWH. Identifying the correct dose and timing
of LMWH is a matter of immediate interest. Of note, patients in the
heparin group received two types of LMWH, enoxaparin sodium or
nadroparin calcium, which have been reported to have differing
anticoagulant activity. The use of different LMWHs in the heparin group
warrants further explanation.

Another caveat of this study is that the levels of D-dimer and
fibrinogen degradation products were significantly higher at baseline
for patients in the heparin group compared to those in the control
group. Therefore, it is difficult to decipher whether some of the
positive effects of heparin treatment were due to its anti-coagulation
effects or direct anti-inflammatory effects. Future studies are that
delineate the anti-inflammatory functions of heparin independently of
its anticoagulant properties in cases of COVID-19 would be useful.

Lastly, this study did not discuss any side-effects of heparin, such as
the risk of bleeding. Moreover, coagulation can help to compartmentalize
pathogens and reduce their invasion, therefore anticoagulant treatments
like heparin may have risks and it remains to be determined which
patients would benefit from this therapy.

**References:**

Li J, Li Y, Yang B, Wang H, Li L. Low-molecular-weight heparin treatment
for acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome: a
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Int J Clin Exp Med
2018;11(2):414-422

Wojnicz R, Nowak J, Szyguła-Jurkiewicz B, Wilczek K, Lekston A, Trzeciak
P, et al. Adjunctive therapy with low-molecular-weight heparin in
patients with chronic heart failure secondary to dilated cardiomyopathy:
oneyear follow-up results of the randomized trial. Am Heart J.
2006;152(4):713.e1-7
