**Aerosol and surface stability of HCoV-19 (SARS-COV-2) compared to
SARS-CoV-1**

 

van Doremalen, N. et al. New England Journal of Medicine. \[@[doi:
10.1056/NEJMc2004973](about:blank)\]

**Keywords**

COVID-19, aerosol, transmission, fomites

 

**Main Findings**

The authors analyzed and compared the stability of viable SARS-COV-2 and
SARS-CoV-1 inoculums in five environmental conditions (aerosol, copper,
cardboard, steel, and plastic) by using

Bayesian regression model. It was reported that SARS-COV-2 was still
detected in aerosols at 3 hours, with an exponential reduction in
infectious titer that was similarly observed for SARS-CoV-1. The study
also concluded that both SARS-COV-2 and SARS-CoV-1 are more stable on
stainless steel and plastic than cardboard and copper. Viable SARS-CoV-2
was detected up to 72 hours on stainless steel and plastic. On copper
and cardboard, SARS-COV-2 was viable up to 4 hours and 24 hours,
respectively, compared to SARS-CoV-1 which could be detected up to 8
hours on both material types. The half-lives between both viruses are
similar, except for on cardboard. The median half-lives are summarized
in Table 1 below.

 

 

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              SARS-COV-2               SARS-CoV-1               difference
                                                                
              Median half-life (hrs)   Median half-life (hrs)   (SARS-COV-2 - SARS-Cov-1)
                                                                
                                                                difference (hrs)
  ----------- ------------------------ ------------------------ ---------------------------
  aerosols    1.09                     1.18                     -0.0913

  copper      0.774                    1.5                      -0.735

  cardboard   3.46                     0.587                    2.85

  steel       5.63                     4.16                     1.46

  plastic     6.81                     7.55                     -0.722
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

**Limitation of the study**

The strain used in the study was SARS-COV-2 nCoV-WA1-2020 (MN985325.1)
from the first case of 2019 novel coronavirus in the US. However,
mutation throughout the course of the pandemic is inevitable and may
cause unpredictable consequences on its transmissibility and disease
severity. Thus, follow-up on samples from various patients in different
geographic and temporal time points should be conducted.

** **

**Significance**

[]{#_gjdgxs .anchor}The results support that modes of SARS-COV-2
transmission can be attributed to both aerosol and fomites, due to
extended viability for hours in aerosol and up to 72 hours on stainless
steel surfaces. The types of plastic, cardboard, copper, and stainless
materials were selected to reflect typical hospital and household
situations. It is important to compare with the SARS-CoV-1 as
similarities between the two suggests methods of mitigating the pandemic
by abrogating transmission both in the community and hospital.

*Review by Joan Shang as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
