Retrospective Analysis of Clinical Features in 101 Death Cases with
COVID-19

 

Immunology Keywords

death biomarkers, cardiac damage, Troponin, Blood type, respiratory
failure, hypertension

 

Summary

This is a retrospective study involving 101 death cases with COVID-19 in
Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital. The aim was to describe clinical,
epidemiological and laboratory features of fatal cases in order to
identify the possible primary mortality causes related to COVID-19.

Among 101 death cases, 56.44% were confirmed by RT-PCR and 43.6% by
clinical diagnostics. Males dominated the number of deaths and the
average age was 65.46 years. All patients died of respiratory failure
and multiple organs failure, except one (acute coronary syndrome). The
predominant comorbidities were hypertension (42.57%) and diabetes
(22.77%). 25.74% of the patients presented more than two underlying
diseases. 82% of patients presented myocardial enzymes abnormalities at
admission and further increase in myocardial damage indicators with
disease progression: patients with elevated Troponin I progressed faster
to death. Alterations in coagulation were also detected. Indicators of
liver and kidney damage increased 48 hours before death. The authors
studied the deceased patients’ blood type and presented the following
results: type A (44.44%), type B (29.29%), type AB (8.08%) and type O
(18.19%), which is inconsistent with the distribution in Han population
in Wuhan.

Clinical analysis showed that the most common symptom was fever (91.9%),
followed by cough and dyspnea. The medium time from onset of symptoms to
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) development was 12 days.
Unlike SARS, only 2 patients with COVID-19 had diarrhea. 98% presented
abnormal lung imaging at admission and most had double-lung
abnormalities. Related to the laboratorial findings some inflammatory
indicators gradually increased during the disease progression, such as
IL-6 secretion in the circulation, procalcitonin (PCT) and C-reactive
protein (CRP), while platelets numbers decreased. The authors also
reported an initial lymphopenia that was followed by an increase in the
lymphocytes numbers. Neutrophil count increased with disease
progression.

The patients received different treatments such as antiviral drugs
(60.40%), glucocorticoids, thymosin and immunoglobulins. All patients
received antibiotic treatment and some received antifungal drugs. All
patients received oxygen therapy (invasive or non-invasive ones).

Limitations

This study involves just fatal patients, lacking comparisons with other
groups of patients e.g. patients that recovered from COVID-19. The
authors didn’t discuss the different approaches used for treatments and
how these may affect the several parameters measured. The possible
relationship between the increase of inflammatory indicators and
morbidities of COVID-19 are not discussed.

Relevance

This study has the largest cohort of fatal cases reported so far. The
authors show that COVID-19 causes fatal respiratory distress syndrome
and multiple organ failure. This study highlights prevalent myocardial
damage and indicates that cardiac function of COVID-19 patients should
be carefully monitored. The data suggest that Troponin I should be
further investigated as an early indicator of patients with high risk of
accelerated health deterioration. Secondary bacterial and fungal
infections were frequent in critically ill patients and these need to be
carefully monitored in severe COVID-19 patients. Differences in blood
type distribution were observed, suggesting that type A is detrimental
while type O is protective – but further studies are needed to confirm
these findings and elucidate if blood type influences infection or
disease severity. Several inflammatory indicators (neutrophils, PCT, CRP
and IL-6, D-dimer) increased according to disease severity and should be
assessed as biomarkers and to better understand the biology of
progression to severe disease.
