**A possible role of immunopathogenesis in COVID-19 progression**

Anft M., Paniskaki K, Blazquez-Navarro A t al.; medRxiv 
2020.04.28.20083089; https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.28.20083089

***Keywords***

-   SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-specific T cells

-   COVID-19

-   adaptive immunity

***Main findings ***

In this preprint, 53 hospitalized COVID-19 patients, enrolled in a
prospective study at a tertiary care center in Germany, were assigned to
moderate (n=21; light pneumonia), severe (n=18; fever or respiratory
tract infection with respiratory rate &gt;30/min, severe dyspnea, or
resting SpO~2~ &lt;90%), and critical subgroups (n=14; ARDS, sepsis, or
septic shock) according to clinical disease. Moderately and severely ill
patients with a PCR-confirmed diagnosis were recruited within four days
of clinical onset, whereas critically ill patients were enrolled on
average within 14 days of diagnosis on admission to ICU. To account for
the overall longer hospital stay in ICU cases prior to inclusion,
repeated blood samples were obtained from moderately and severely ill
donors within eight days post recruitment. For 10 out of 14 ICU
patients, no follow up blood samples were collected. At recruitment as
well as on follow-up, circulating lymphocyte counts were below reference
range in the majority of enrolled COVID-19 patients. Relative
frequencies were significantly reduced in critically *vs*. moderately,
but not *vs*. severely ill individuals, with substantially lower NK as
well as CD8 T cells counts, and a concomitant increase of the CD4:CD8 T
cell ratio in ICU patients. Basic phenotypic and immune cell subset
analysis by flow cytometry detected lower frequencies of central memory
CD4 T cells as well as reduced terminally differentiated CD8 Temra cells
in critical COVID-19. Moreover, a decrease in activated HLA-DR^+^ CD4
and CD8 T cells as well as in cytolytic CD57^+^ CD8 T cells was observed
in critical *vs*. severe/moderate disease. Similarly, frequencies of
CD11a^+^ CD4 and CD8 T cells as well as CD28^+^ CD4 T cells were lower
in critically ill donors, indicating a general loss of activated bulk T
cells in this subgroup. In addition, a reduction of both marginal and
transitional CD19^+^ B cells was seen in patients with severe and
critical symptoms. Of note, on follow-up, recovering severe COVID-19
patients showed an increase in bulk T cell numbers with an activated
phenotype. Importantly, SARS-CoV-2 spike (S)-protein-specific CD4 and
CD8 T cells, identified following stimulation of PBMCs with 15-mer
overlapping S protein peptide pools by flow-cytometric detection of
intracellular CD154 and CD137, respectively, were found in the majority
of patients in all COVID-19 subgroups at the time of recruitment and
further increased in most subjects by the time of follow-up (antiviral
CD4 &gt;&gt; CD8 T cells). Most notably, frequencies of both antiviral
CD4 and CD8 T cells were substantially higher in critically ill
patients, and virus specific CD4 and CD8 T cells in both critically and
severely ill subgroups were shown to produce more pro-inflammatory Th1
cytokines (TNFa, IFNg, IL-2) and the effector molecule GzmB,
respectively, suggesting an overall increased magnitude of
virus-specific T cell inflammation in the context of more severe disease
courses. Furthermore, frequencies of antiviral CD4 T cells correlated
moderately with anti-S-protein IgG levels across all patient groups.

***Limitations ***

In general, this is a well executed study and most of the observations
reported here pertaining to overall reduced bulk T cell frequencies
(along with lower NK and other immune cell counts) as well as diminished
numbers of T cells with an activated phenotype in ICU *vs*. non ICU
COVID-19 corroborate findings in several previous publications and
preprints (cf. https://www.jci.org/articles/view/137244;
<https://academic.oup.com/jid/advance-article/doi/10.1093/infdis/jiaa150/5813618>;
<https://www.nature.com/articles/s41423-020-0401-3>;
<https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.11.20062349v1.full.pdf>;
<https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.17.20061440v1.full.pdf>).
Notably, in contrast to many previous reports, the prospective study by
Anft et al. enrolled a relatively larger number of COVID-19 patients of
variable clinical disease (with the exception of mild cases). However,
there are a few weaknesses that should be addressed. Most importantly,
the choice of statistical tests applied should be carefully revised:
e.g. comparison of more than two groups, as seems to be the case for
most of the figures, requires ANOVA testing, which should ideally be
followed by post-hoc testing (despite the somewhat confusing statement
that this was conceived as an exploratory study). Given the overall
limited case numbers per clinical subgroup, trends even though they
might not reach statistical significance are equally important.
Similarly, some statements are overgeneralized and should to be adjusted
based on the actual data shown (e.g. the authors continue to refer to
gradual reductions of activated T cell subset numbers in moderately
*vs.* severely *vs*. critically ill patients, but for the majority of
data shown substantial differences are apparent only in ICU *vs*.
non-ICU patients). Moreover, it would be helpful to include exemplary
FACS plots in addition to explanatory gating strategies provided in the
supplemental document. There are also several inconsistencies regarding
the order of data presented here (e.g. in the main manuscript, Fig S5 is
chronological referred to before Fig S4) as well as pertaining to
relevant technical details (according to both the main manuscript and
the gating strategy in Figure S5, virus-specific CD4 T cells were
identified by CD154 expression; however, in figure legend S5
virus-specific CD4 T cells are defined as CD4^+^ CD154^+^ CD137^+^).
Additionally, from a technical point of view, it is somewhat intriguing
that the percentages of virus-specific T cells identified by expression
of CD154 and CD137, respectively, following peptide simulation seem to
differ substantially from frequencies of CD154^+^ or CD137^+^ INFg^+^
virus-specific T cells. Assuming a somewhat lower extent of cellular
exhaustion in the moderate COVID-19 group, one would expect these cell
subsets to mostly overlap/match in frequencies, therefore suggesting
slight overestimation of actual virus-specific T cell numbers. In this
context, inclusion of positive controls, such as CMV pp65 peptide
stimulation of PBMCs from CMV seropositive donors, in addition to the
already included negative controls would also be helpful. Moreover, in
view of the observation that virus-specific T cells were found to be
increased in critically ill ICU over non-ICU patients, a more stringent
characterization of these patients as well as assessment of potential
associations with clinical characteristics such as mechanical
ventilation or death would add further impact to the findings described
here. Finally, this study is limited to anti-S protein specific T cells.
However, evaluation of N and also M-protein specific CD8 T cell
responses are likely of great interest as well based on current
knowledge about persistent M-protein specific memory CD8 T cells
following SARS-CoV-1 infection (cf.
<https://www.microbiologyresearch.org/content/journal/jgv/10.1099/vir.0.82839-0>).

***Significance***

In addition to reduced frequencies of activated bulk T cell numbers, the
authors report an enhanced virus-specific T cell response against S
protein epitopes in critically ill COVID-19 patients compared to
severely and moderately ill individuals, which correlated with anti-S
protein antibody titers (also cf. Ni et al.:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.immuni.2020.04.023).

This is an important observation that mirrors previous data about
SARS-CoV-1 (cf. Ka-fai Li C et al.:
<https://www.jimmunol.org/content/jimmunol/181/8/5490.full.pdf>).
Furthermore, in accordance with a recent preprint by Weiskopf et al.
(<https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.11.20062349v1.full.pdf>),
virus-specific CD4 T cells were found to increase in most patients over
time regardless of clinical disease, whereas antiviral CD8 T cell
kinetics seemed slightly less pronounced. Moreover, in the majority of
moderately and severely ill cases, virus-specific T cells against the S
protein could be detected early on - on average within 4 days of symptom
onset. Longitudinal studies including larger numbers of COVID-19
patients across all clinical subgroups are therefore needed to further
evaluate the potential impact of this observation, in particular in the
context of previously described pre-existing memory T cells
cross-reactive against human endemic coronaviruses (cf.
<https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.17.20061440v1.full.pdf>;
<https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/039463200501800312>).

*This review was undertaken by V. van der Heide as part of a project by
students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn
school of medicine, Mount Sinai.* 

 
