### Profiling the immune vulnerability landscape of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus

Zhu et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.08.939553]

#### Keywords

- epitope prediction
- vaccine development.

#### Main Findings

This study harnesses bioinformatic profiling to predict the potential of
COV2 viral proteins to be presented on MHC I and II and to form linear
B-cell epitopes. These estimates suggest a T-cell antigenic profile
distinct from SARS-CoV or MERS-CoV, identify focused regions of the
virus with a high density of predicted epitopes, and provide preliminary
evidence for adaptive immune pressure in the genetic evolution of the
virus.

#### Limitations

While the study performs a comprehensive analysis of potential epitopes
within the virus genome, the analysis relies solely on bioinformatic
prediction to examine MHC binding affinity and B-cell epitope potential
and does not capture the immunogenicity or recognition of
these epitopes. Future experimental validation in data from patients
infected with SARS-CoV-2 will be important to validate and refine these
findings. Thus some of the potential conclusions stated, including viral
evolution toward lower immunogenicity or a dominant role for CD4+
T-cells rather than CD8+ T-cells in viral clearance, require further
valiadtion.

#### Significance

These findings may help direct peptide vaccine design toward relevant
epitopes and provide intriguing evidence of viral evolution in response
to immune pressure.

#### Credit

*Summary generated as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
