https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.17.995639

**COMPARATIVE PATHOGENESIS OF COVID-19, MERS AND SARS IN A NON-HUMAN
PRIMATE MODEL**

**Keywords:** SARS-CoV2, cynomolgus macaque, SARS-CoV

**Main findings:**

This work assesses SARS-CoV-2 infection in young adult and aged
cynomolgus macaques. 4 macaques per age group were infected with
low-passage clinical sample of SARS-CoV-2 by intranasal and
intratracheal administration. Viral presence was assessed in nose,
throat and rectum through RT-PCR and viral culture. SARS-CoV-2
replication was confirmed in the respiratory track (including nasal
samples), and it was also detected in ileum. Viral nucleocapsid
detection by IHC showed infection of type I and II pneumocytes and
epithelia. Virus was found to peak between 2 and 4 days after
administration and reached higher levels in aged vs. young animals. The
early peak is consistent with data in patients and contrasts to SARS-CoV
replication. SARS-CoV-2 reached levels below detection between 8 and 21
days after inoculation and macaques established antibody immunity
against the virus by day 14. There were histopathological alteration in
lung, but no overt clinical signs. At day 4 post inoculation of
SARS-CoV-2, two of four animals presented foci of pulmonary
consolidation, with limited areas of alveolar edema and pneumonia, as
well as immune cell infiltration. In sum, cynomolgus macaques are
permissive to SARS- CoV-2 and develop lung pathology (less severe than
SARC-CoV, but more severe than MERS-CoV).

**Limitations:**

Even though cynomolgus macaques were permissive to SARS-CoV-2
replication, it is unclear if the viral load reaches levels comparable
to humans and there wasn’t overt clinical pathology.

**Relevance:**

The development of platforms in which to carry out relevant
experimentation on SARS-CoV-2 pathophysiology is of great urgency.
Cynomolgus macaques offer an environment in which viral replication can
happen, albeit in a limited way and without translating into clinically
relevant symptoms. Other groups are contributing to SARS-CoV2 literature
using this animal model (1), potentially showing protection against
reinfection in cured macaques. Therefore, this platform could be used to
examine SARS-CoV2 pathophysiology while studies in other animal models
are also underway (2,3).

**References:**

1\. Bao L, Deng W, Gao H, Xiao C, Liu J, Xue J, et al. Reinfection could
not occur in SARS-CoV-2 infected rhesus macaques. bioRxiv. 2020 Mar
14;2020.03.13.990226.

2\. McCray PB, Pewe L, Wohlford-Lenane C, Hickey M, Manzel L, Shi L, et
al. Lethal Infection of K18-hACE2 Mice Infected with Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus. J Virol. 2007 Jan 15;81(2):813–21.

3\. Bao L, Deng W, Huang B, Gao H, Ren L, Wei Q, et al. The Pathogenicity
of 2019 Novel Coronavirus in hACE2 Transgenic Mice. bioRxiv. 2020 Feb
28;2020.02.07.939389.
