DOI: 10.1101/2020.04.11.20062349

Title: Phenotype of SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cells in COVID-19 patients
with acute respiratory distress syndrome

Keywords: SARS-CoV-2 specific T cells; Acute Respiratory Distress
Syndrome; Th1 response

Summary: Using peripheral blood samples collected from 8 COVID-19
patients with moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome
(ARDS), the authors showed that COVID-19 patients exhibit lower CD3^+^ T
cell counts as well as increased CD4:CD8 ratio. In addition to
population analysis, PBMCs were stimulated with three pools of either
overlapping peptides of SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein or HLA Class II or
I predicted epitopes covering all viral proteins except S designed to
activate CD4 and CD8 T cells, respectively. While stimulation of PBMCs
with all three peptide pools led to detection and activation of
SARS-CoV-2 specific CD4 and CD8 T cells, spike (S) peptide pool elicited
the strongest response, indicating that the S surface glycoprotein is a
strong inducer of both CD4 and CD8 T-cell responses. Phenotyping of
activated T cells (CD4^+^CD69^+^CD137^+^ or CD8^+^CD69^+^CD137^+^)
showed that the majority of activated CD4 T cells were central memory
T-cells (CD45RA^-^ and CCR7^+^) while activated CD8 T cells were mostly
effector memory T cells (CCR7^-^) and terminally differentiated effector
T cells. Cytokine analysis of cell culture supernatants from PBMCs
stimulated by S-peptide pool led to a strong production of Th1 cytokines
IFNγ, TNF⍺ and IL-2. Lastly, the authors profiled the kinetics of both
humoral and cell-mediated response in four different time points using
ELISA of virus-specific serum IgG and quantifying expression of cell
surface markers induced by S peptide pool activation. Throughout the
patients’ stay at the ICU, both levels of virus-specific IgG antibodies
and frequencies of virus-specific CD4 cells increased significantly over
time.

Limitations: A couple of additional assays done in parallel could have
further strengthened the paper’s findings. Simultaneous profiling of
cytokines from PBMCs could have easily answered whether these T cells
which are capable of producing Th1 cytokines upon activation are indeed
producing them in patients. Furthermore, it would have been informative
to have added a couple of functional exhaustion markers (i.e. PD-1,
Tim-3, etc.) and compare their expression between pre- and
post-activation by S peptide pool—thereby addressing the effect of
functional exhaustion in T cells reported in severe COVID-19 patients.
Follow-up studies investigating which epitopes out of the S protein
peptide pool elicited the most potent T-cell response would have yielded
informative results for possible vaccine design efforts against the
spike protein. Lastly, comparing the quality of virus specific T cells
immunity between patients in ICU (the focus of the study) and patients
with mild /moderate disease would have been very informative.

Significance of the finding: For the most part, the study design has
been well established to answer the following questions: a) are there T
cells reactive to spike (and other HLA-reactive) protein of SARS-CoV2
even in cases of COVID-19 with moderate to severe ARDS (which has been
characterized with lymphopenia)? b) what are the phenotype and cytokine
profile of CD4 and CD8 T cells upon activation? Answering these
questions do advance the field’s understanding of T cell response to
COVID-19 and add to much-needed effort to devise a vaccine against
SARS-CoV2. Building on this article’s findings, perhaps future studies
could perform mechanistic assays the function of T cells from COVID-19
patients in the context of systemic inflammation (i.e. adding IL-1,
IL-6, TNF⍺ in the culture media) as well as correlating epitope-specific
immune response of patients with their clinical severity.

*Review by Chang Moon as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the\
Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine, Mount Sinai.*
