**ACE2 Expression in Kidney and Testis May Cause Kidney and Testis
Damage After 2019-nCoV Infection**

<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20022418>

*Immunology keywords*:

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, kidney, testis, ACE2, scRNAseq,

*Summary of Findings*:

-   Study used online datasets (scRNAseq GSE131685, scRNAseq GSE107585,
    Human Protein Atlas, GTEx portal, CCLE) to analyze ACE2 expression
    in different human organs.

-   Study re-analyzed three clinical datasets (n=6, n=99, and n=41) to
    show 3\~10% of 2019-nCoV patients present with abnormal renal
    function.

-   results indicate ACE2 highly expressed in renal tubular cells,
    Leydig cells and seminiferous ductal cells of testis.

*Limitations*:

-   Very preliminary transcript/protein dataset analysis in healthy
    cohorts; does not necessarily translate to actual viral tropism and
    permissiveness.

-   Clinically, would be important to determine with larger longitudinal
    dataset if SARS-CoV-2 infection changes sperm quality or testicular
    inflammation.

-   Similarly, would be important to determine if simultaneous HBV or
    syphilis infection and orchitis impacts SARS-CoV-2 severity.

-   Examination and follow-up of renal function and viral orchitis/sperm
    quality of CoVID-19 patients not done in this preliminary study.

*Importance/Relevance:*

-   Kidney ACE2 result supports other concurrent sequencing studies
    (<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.08.939892> ) and clinical reports
    of abnormal renal function or even kidney damage in patients
    infected with 2019-nCoV
    (<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.08.20021212> ).

-   High ACE2 expression in testis suggests potential tropism of the
    virus to testicular tissues and indicates potential risks for male
    fertility. Viral orchitis reported for SARS-CoV previously \[1\],
    but no clear evidence so far of infertility in SARS, MERS or
    CoVID-19 patients.

*References:*

1.  Xu, J., et al., *Orchitis: a complication of severe acute
    respiratory syndrome (SARS).Biol Reprod*, (2006) 74(2):p 410-6. Doi:
    10.1095/biolreprod.105.044776

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
