### Diarrhea may be underestimated: a missing link in 2019 novel coronavirus

*Liang et al. medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.03.20020289v2]


#### Keywords:

- SARS-CoV-2
- diarrhea
- ACE2
- scRNA-seq

#### Main Findings

***:*** This study examined the incidence of diarrhea in
patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 across three recently published
cohorts and found that there are statistically significant differences
by Fisher’s exact test. They report that this could be due to subjective
diagnosis criterion for diarrhea or from patients first seeking medical
care from gastroenterologist. In order to minimize nosocomial infections
arising from unsuspected patients with diarrhea and gain comprehensive
understanding of transmission routes for this viral pathogen, they
compared the transcriptional levels of ACE2 of various human tissues
from NCBI public database as well as in small intestine tissue from
CD57BL/6 mice using single cell sequencing. They show that ACE2
expression is not only increased in the human small intestine, but
demonstrate a particular increase in mice enterocytes positioned on the
surface of the intestinal lining exposed to viral pathogens. Given that
ACE2 is the viral receptor for SARS-CoV-2 and also reported to regulate
diarrhea, their data suggests the small intestine as a potential
transmission route and diarrhea as a potentially underestimated symptom
in COVID19 patients that must be carefully monitored. Interestingly,
however, they show that ACE2 expression level is not elevated in human
lung tissue.

#### Limitations

Although this study demonstrates a
statistical difference in the incidence of diarrhea across three
separate COVID19 patient cohorts, their conclusions are limited by a
small sample size. Specifically, the p-value computed by Fisher’s exact
test is based on a single patient cohort of only six cases of which 33%
are reported to have diarrhea, while the remaining two larger cohorts
with 41 and 99 cases report 3% and 2% diarrhea incidence, respectively.
Despite showing significance, they would need to acquire larger sample
sizes and cohorts to minimize random variability and draw meaningful
conclusions. Furthermore, they do not address why ACE2 expression level
is not elevated in human lung tissue despite it being a major
established route of transmission for SARS-CoV-2. It could be helpful to
validate this result by looking at ACE2 expression in mouse lung tissue.
Finally, although this study is descriptive and shows elevated ACE2
expression in small intestinal epithelial cells, it does not establish a
mechanistic link to SARS-CoV-2 infection of the host. Overall, their
claim that infected patients exhibiting diarrhea pose an increased risk
to hospital staff needs to be further substantiated.

#### Significance

This study provides a possible transmission route and a
potentially underappreciated clinical symptom for SARS-CoV-2 for better
clinical management and control of COVID19.

#### Credit

*Summary generated as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
