### Antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 in patients of novel coronavirus disease 2019

Zhao Jr. et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.02.20030189]

#### Keywords
- SARS-CoV-2 IgG
- seroconversion rate
- total Ab
- Ig
- IgM

#### Main Findings

This study examined antibody responses in
the blood of COVID-19 patients during the early SARS CoV2 outbreak in
China. Total 535 plasma samples were collected from 173 patients (51.4%
female) and were tested for seroconversion rate using ELISA. Authors
also compared the sensitivity of RNA and antibody tests over the course
of the disease . The key findings are:

-   Among 173 patients, the seroconversion rates for total antibody
    (Ab), IgM and IgG were 93.1% (161/173), 82.7% (143/173) and 64.7%
    (112/173), respectively.

-   The seroconversion sequentially appeared for Ab, IgM and then IgG,
    with a median time of 11, 12 and 14 days, respectively. Overall, the
    seroconversion of Ab was significantly quicker than that of IgM (p =
    0.012) and IgG (p &lt; 0.001). Comparisons of seroconversion rates
    between critical and non-critical patients did not reveal any
    significant differences.

-   RNA tests had higher sensitivity in early phase and within 7 days of
    disease onset than antibody assays (66.7% Vs 38.3% respectively).

-   The sensitivity of the Ab assays was higher 8 days after disease
    onset, reached 90% at day 13 and 100% at later time points (15-39
    days). In contrast, RNA was only detectable in 45.5% of samples at
    days 15-39.

-   In patients with undetectable RNA in nasal samples collected during
    day 1-3, day 4-7, day 8-14 and day 15-39 since disease onset, 28.6%
    (2/7), 53.6% (15/28), 98.2% (56/57) and 100% (30/30) had detectable
    total Ab titers respectively Combining RNA and antibody tests
    significantly raised the sensitivity for detecting COVID-19 patients
    in different stages of the disease (p &lt; 0.001).

-   There was a strong positive correlation between clinical severity
    and antibody titer 2-weeks after illness onset.

-   Dynamic profiling of viral RNA and antibodies in representative
    COVID-19 patients (n=9) since onset of disease revealed that
    antibodies may not be sufficient to clear the virus. It should be
    noted that increases in of antibody titers were not always
    accompanied by RNA clearance.

#### Limitations

Because different types of ELISA assays were used for
determining antibody concentrations at different time points after
disease onset, sequential seroconversion of total Ab, IgM and IgG may
not represent actual temporal differences but rather differences in the
affinities of the assays used. Also, due to the lack of blood samples
collected from patients in the later stage of illness, how long the
antibodies could last remain unknown. For investigative dynamics of
antibodies, more samples were required.

#### Significance

Total and IgG antibody titers could be used to understand
the epidemiology of SARS CoV-2 infection and to assist in determining
the level of humoral immune response in patients.

The findings provide strong clinical evidence for routine serological
and RNA testing in the diagnosis and clinical management of COVID-19
patients. The understanding of antibody responses and their half-life
during and after SARS CoV2 infection is important and warrants further
investigations.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by Zafar Mahmood and edited by K Alexandropoulos as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
