### Single-cell Analysis of ACE2 Expression in Human Kidneys and Bladders Reveals a Potential Route of 2019-nCoV Infection

Lin et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.08.939892]

#### Keywords

- CoVID-19
- 2019-nCoV
- SARS-CoV-2
- ACE2
- scRNAseq
- kidney
- bladder
- public dataset

#### Main Findings

-   To investigate the possible cause of kidney damage in 2019-nCoV
    patients, authors used published kidney and bladder cell atlas data
    (GSE131685, GSE108097; 3 healthy donors each) as well as an
    unpublished kidney single-cell RNA-Seq data (in-house from 2
    transplant donors) to evaluate ACE2 gene expressions in all cell
    types of healthy kidneys and bladders.

-   They find enriched expression of ACE2 transcript in all subtypes of
    proximal tubule cells of kidney, with 5%-15% of both straight and
    convoluted proximal tubule cells expressing ACE2.

-   They also find detectable levels of ACE2 in bladder epithelial
    cells, noting expression from around 1.5% of cells in the outer
    layer umbrella cells of the bladder epithelium and decreasing in the
    basal cells.

-   Importantly endothelial or immune cells in kidney/bladder do not
    express ACE2.

#### Limitations

-   This study primarily characterizes ACE2 expression (amongst other
    genes) from a small healthy-donor dataset, and will benefit from
    supporting data in (expired) patient samples to show functional
    viral damage. ACE2 transcript does not necessarily translate to
    viral permissiveness in kidney/bladder epithelia or cytokine
    release.

-   This study focuses on only healthy tissue; it will be useful to
    analyze kidney/bladder epithelial ACE2 expression under inflammatory
    conditions or in patients with underlying kidney conditions.

-   Given what is known about protease TMPRSS2 expression during
    SARS-CoV-2 infection, ACE2+TMPRSS2+ double-positive cell
    identification would be useful in these datasets.

#### Significance

-   ACE2 protein is spatially restricted to brush border of proximal
    tubules and in bladder umbrella cells [@doi:10.1002/path.1570], such cells in direct
    contact with viral particles are likely to be highly sensitive to
    viral-induced damage.

-   SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV have been shown to be detected in urine of
    patients and associate with higher mortality [@doi:10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.67130.x; @doi:10.7326/m13-2486], thus worth
    understanding kidney damage and resultant immune response in
    SARS-CoV-2 as well.

-   This study argues for a potential mode of viral infectivity and
    resultant inflammatory responses in these tissue in addition to
    reported infectivity in the lung and digestive system, which is
    supported by clinical data showing acute and early kidney
    complications in 2019-nCoV patients [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.08.20021212].

-   Clinically, thus very important to track urinary CoVID-19 shedding
    as well as study acute kidney injury-related co-morbidities.

#### Credit

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
