### Breadth of concomitant immune responses underpinning viral clearance and patient recovery in a non-severe case of COVID-19

Thevarajan et al. *medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.20.20025841]

#### Keywords

- IgG
- IgM
- TfH cells
- NK cells
- SNP

#### Main Findings

The authors characterized the immune response in peripheral blood of a
47-year old COVID-19 patient.

SARS-CoV2 was detected in nasopharyngeal swab, sputum and faeces
samples, but not in urine, rectal swab, whole blood or throat swab. 7
days after symptom onset, the nasopharyngeal swab test turned negative,
at day 10 the radiography infiltrates were cleared and at day 13 the
patient became asymptomatic.

Immunofluorescence staining shows from day 7 the presence of
**COVID-19-binding IgG and IgM** antibodies in plasma, that increase
until day 20.

Flow cytometry on whole blood reveals a plasmablast peak at day 8, a
gradual increase in T follicular helper cells, stable HLA-DR^+^ NK
frequencies and decreased monocyte frequencies compared to healthy
counterparts. The expression of CD38 and HLA-DR peaked on T cells at D9
and was associated with higher production of cytotoxic mediators by
CD8^+^ T cells.

IL-6 and IL-8 were undetectable in plasma.

The authors further highlight the presence of the **IFITM3
SNP-rs12252-C/C variant** in this patient, which is associated with
higher susceptibility to influenza virus.

#### Limitations

These results need to be confirmed in additional patients.

COVID-19 patients have increased infiltration of macrophages in their
lungs [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.23.20026690]. Monitoring monocyte proportions in blood earlier in the
disease might help to evaluate their eventual migration to the lungs.

The stable concentration of HLA-DR^+^ NK cells in blood from day 7 is
not sufficient to rule out NK cell activation upon SARS-CoV2 infection.
In response to influenza A virus, NK cells express higher levels of
activation markers CD69 and CD38, proliferate better and display higher
cytotoxicity [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2019.01116]. Assessing these parameters in COVID-19 patients is
required to better understand NK cell role in clearing this infection.

Neutralization potential of the COVID-19-binding IgG and IgM antibodies
should be assessed in future studies.

This patient was able to clear the virus, while presenting a SNP
associated with severe outcome following influenza infection. The
association between this SNP and outcome upon SARS-CoV2 infection should
be further investigated.

#### Significance

This study is among the first to describe the appearance of
COVID-19-binding IgG and IgM antibodies upon infection. The emergence of
new serological assays might contribute to monitor more precisely the
seroconversion kinetics of COVID-19 patients [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.17.20037713]. Further association
studies between IFITM3 SNP-rs12252-C/C variant and clinical data might
help to refine the COVID-19 outcome prediction tools.

#### Credit

*Review by Bérengère Salomé as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
