**Title: **

**Immunopathological characteristics of coronavirus disease 2019 cases
in**

**Guangzhou, China**

**Immunology keywords:** SARS-COV-2, COVID-19, T cell, B cell, NK cell,
IL-2, IL-6, IL-10, TNF$\alpha$

**The main finding of the article: **

This study analyzed immune cell populations and multiple cytokines in 31
patients with mild/moderate COVID-19 (ave. 44.5 years) and 25 with
severe COVID-19 (ave. 66 years). Samples from patients with fever and
negative for the SARS-COV-2 test were used as control. At inpatient
admission, total lymphocytes number was decreased in severe patients but
not in mild patients, whereas neutrophils were increased in severe
patients. CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were diminished in all COVID-19
patients. CD19+ B cells and NK cells were decreased in both mild and
severe patients, however, severe patients showed a notable reduction.
These data might suggest a profound deregulation of lymphocytes in
COVID-19 patients. Further analysis showed significant increases of
IL-2, IL-6, IL-10 and TNF$\alpha$ in blood of severe patients at the
admission. Sequential samples revealed that IL-2 and IL-6 peaked on day
15-20 and declined thereafter. A moderate increase of IL-4 was seen in
mild/moderate patients. Thus, elevation of IL-2, IL-6 can be indicators
of severe COVID-19.

**Critical analysis of the study:**

There is no information on when the patients were assessed as severe or
mild/moderate, at inpatient admission or later. The authors could have
analyzed the correlation between immune cell population and cytokine
levels to see, for example, if severe lymphopenia correlated to higher
elevation of IL-2.

**The importance and implications for the current epidemics:**

While similar findings have already been shown, the data corroborates
alterations in circulating adaptive and innate immune cell populations
and cytokines, and its correlation to disease severity. The increase of
IL-2 and IL-6 at the admission might an indicator to start intensive
therapies (like convalescent serum) at an early time.
