Title: Association of BCG vaccination policy with prevalence and
mortality of

COVID-19

Immunology Keywords

Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) Immunization, COVID-19 prevalence,
COVID-19 deaths

Main findings

Previously reported immunization programs using BCG vaccines have
demonstrated heterologous protection against other unrelated pathogens
that associated with lower mortality and morbidity risks \[1\].
Therefore this study investigated the possible correlation between
COVID-19 death cases or prevalence with BCG vaccination. The authors
used publicly available COVID-19 data from 136 countries as well as
vaccination demographics from the BCG World Atlas to perform a linear
regression modeling.

After correcting for life expectancy and the onset of the spread of the
virus (n=40), the analyses revealed a positive effect of current BCG
vaccination programs and controlling the number of COVID-19 cases and
deaths.

The amount of variance explained by BCG vaccination was 20% for number
of cases and significant for both groups of countries, the ones that
used to have a BCG immunization program in the past (b = 0.6122, p =
.0024) and the ones that never have it (b = 0.6511, p = .0326).

Only the group of countries that never vaccinated against BCG showed
significance in deaths/cases ratio but explains only 3.39% of the
observed variance.

The authors concluded that BCG immunization may provide protection
against COVID-19 probably due to the infection spread reduction. BCG
immunization doesn’t have a significant impact in the mortality induced
by COVID-19.

Limitations:

As acknowledged by the authors of this study, there are large number of
unexplained potential confounding variables such as BCG immunization
coverage, and onset of virus spread in different countries.

The authors cite that BCG immunization coverage could be variable among
countries, but they didn’t explore it. Further, vaccination coverage
changes at different rates over time across countries for different
reasons \[2\]. Additionally, the authors did not consider the variable
immunization coverage within countries, where unequal access to
healthcare is frequently observed \[3, 4\].

The authors do not adequately control for time of spread in infection
for each country \[5\].

The authors discuss the importance of validating experimentally the
results observed and claim that BCG vaccination could provide
non-specific protection against COVID-19. A stronger discussion of the
use of BCG vaccine would have included known considerations on efficacy
considering route of administration (intravenous, intradermal), vaccine
strains which are known to differ in the number of viable bacteria and
duration of protection.

Relevance:

This study presented preliminary data on possible non-specific
protection by BCG immunization on COVID-19 infection.

References

1\. Aaby, P., T.R. Kollmann, and C.S. Benn, *Nonspecific effects of
neonatal and infant vaccination: public-health, immunological and
conceptual challenges.* Nat Immunol, 2014. **15**(10): p. 895-9.

2\. Nuffieldtrust. *Vaccination coverage for children and mothers*. 2020
\[cited 2020; Available from:
<https://www.nuffieldtrust.org.uk/resource/vaccination-coverage-for-children-and-mothers-1?gclid=CjwKCAjw1cX0BRBmEiwAy9tKHhtZ6v3YmGA_N9MSd5IGM0rPHkb3vv4MViuWHpJjmBnKFJ0OAvNJtxoCCQAQAvD_BwE>.

3\. WHO. *10 facts on health inequities and their causes*. 2017;
Available from:
<https://www.who.int/features/factfiles/health_inequities/en/>.

4\. Balance. *Health Care Inequality in America*. 2020; Available from:
<https://www.thebalance.com/health-care-inequality-facts-types-effect-solution-4174842>.

5\. Statista. *Rate of coronavirus (COVID-19) tests performed in select
countries worldwide as of April 8, 2020 (per thousand population)\**.
2020; Available from:
<https://www.statista.com/statistics/1104645/covid19-testing-rate-select-countries-worldwide/>.

Review by Alessandra Soares Schanoski as part of a project by students,
postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of
medicine, Mount Sinai.
