### ACE-2 Expression in the Small Airway Epithelia of Smokers and COPD Patients: Implications for COVID-19

Leung et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.18.20038455]

#### Keywords

- chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
- COPD
- smokingE-2
- risk factors

#### Main Findings

In bronchial epithelial samples from 3 different cohorts of
individuals, ACE-2 gene expression was found to be significantly
increased in both COPD patients and smokers relative to healthy
controls. Across all test subjects, ACE-2 gene expression was also
highly correlated with decreased forced expiratory volume in 1 second
(FEV1), which may explain the increased COVID-19 disease severity in
COPD patients. Former smokers were also found to show decreased ACE2
expression relative to current smokers and had no significant difference
when compared to non-smokers.

#### Limitations

While the upregulation of ACE-2 is an interesting
hypothesis for COVID-19 disease severity in COPD patients, this study
leaves many more unanswered questions than it addresses. Further studies
are required to show whether the specific cell type isolated in these
studies is relevant to the pathophysiology of COVID-19. Furthermore,
there is no attempt to show whether that increased ACE-2 expression
contributes to greater disease severity. Does the increased ACE-2
expression lead to greater infectivity with SARS-CoV-2? There is no
mechanistic explanation for why ACE-2 levels are increased in COPD
patients. The authors could also have considered the impact of
co-morbidities and interventions such as corticosteroids or
bronchodilators on ACE-2 expression. Finally, given the extensive
sequencing performed, the authors could have conducted significantly
more in-depth analyses into gene signature differences.

#### Significance

This study attempts to address an
important clinical finding that both smokers and COPD patients show
increased mortality from COVID-19. The novel finding that ACE-2
expression is induced in smokers and COPD patients suggests not only a
mechanism for the clinical observation, but also highlights the
potential benefit of smoking cessation in reducing the risk of severe
COVID-19 disease.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
