### Can routine laboratory tests discriminate 2019 novel coronavirus infected pneumonia from other community-acquired pneumonia?

Pan et al. *medRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.25.20024711]

#### Keywords

- Routine laboratory testing

#### Main Findings

In an attempt to use standard laboratory testing for the discrimination
between “Novel Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia” (NCIP) and a usual
community acquired pneumonia (CAP), the authors compared laboratory
testing results of 84 NCIP patients with those of a historical group of
316 CAP patients from 2018 naturally COVID-19 negative. The authors
describe significantly lower white blood- as well as red blood- and
platelet counts in NCIP patients. When analyzing differential blood
counts, lower absolute counts were measured in all subsets of NCIP
patients. With regard to clinical chemistry parameters, they found
increased AST and bilirubin in NCIP patients as compared to CAP
patients.

#### Limitations

The authors claim to describe a simple method to rapidly assess a
pre-test probability for NCIP. However, the study has substantial
weakpoints. The deviation in clinical laboratory values in NCIP patients
described here can usually be observed in severely ill patients. The
authors do not comment on how severely ill the patients tested here were
in comparison to the historical control. Thus, the conclusion that the
tests discriminate between CAP and NCIP lacks justification.

#### Significance

The article strives to compare initial laboratory testing results in
patients with COVID-19 pneumonia as compared to patients with a usual
community acquired pneumonia. The implications of this study for the
current clinical situation seem restricted due to a lack in clinical
information and the use of a control group that might not be
appropriate.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
