### Association between Clinical, Laboratory and CT Characteristics and RT-PCR Results in the Follow-up of COVID-19 patients

Fu et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.19.20038315]

#### Keywords

- COVID-19
- clinical
- lymphocyte
- CRP
- LDH
- HSST TNT
- PCR test
- readmission
- CT
- GGO
- disease progression

#### Study description

Data analyzed from 52 COVID-19 patients admitted
and then discharged with COVID-19. Clinical, laboratory, and
radiological data were longitudinally recorded with illness timecourse
(PCR + to PCR-) and 7 patients (13.5%) were readmitted with a follow up
positive test (PCR+) within two weeks of discharge.

#### Main Findings

-   At admission:

    -   The majority of patients had increased CRP at admission (63.5%).

    -   LDH, and HSST TNT were significantly increased at admission.

    -   Radiographic signs via chest CT showed increased involvement in
        lower lobes: right lower lobe (47 cases, 90.4%), left lower lobe
        (37 cases, 71.2%).

    -   GGO (90.4%), interlobular septal thickening (42.3%), vascular
        enlargement (42.3%), and reticulation (11.5%) were most commonly
        observed.

-   After negative PCR test (discharge):

    -   CRP levels decreased lymphocyte counts (\#/L) increased
        significantly (CD3+, CD3+/8+ and CD3+/4+) after negative PCR.

    -   Consolidation and mixed GGO observed in longitudinal CT imaging
        w different extents of inflammatory exudation in lungs, with
        overall tendency for improvement (except 2/7 patients that were
        readmitted after discharge with re-positive test) after negative
        PCR.

-   Seven patients repeated positive RT-PCR test and were readmitted to
    the hospital (9 to 17 day after initial discharge).

    -   Follow up CT necessary to monitor improvement during recovery
        and patients with lesion progression should be given more
        attention.

    -   Dynamic CT in addition to negative test essential in clinical
        diagnosis due to nasal swab PCR sampling bias (false-negatives).

    -   Increase in CRP occurred in 2 readmitted patients (and decr. in
        lymphocytes in one patient), but was not correlated with new
        lesions or disease progression vs. improvement (very low N).

    -   Patients readmitted attributed to false-negative PCR vs.
        re-exposure.

#### Limitations

Patients sampled in this study were generally
younger (65.4% &lt; 50 yrs) and less critically ill/all discharged.
Small number of recovered patients (N=18). Time of follow up was
relatively short.. Limited clinical information available about patients
with re-positive test (except CRP and lymph tracking).

#### Extended Results

*NOTE*: Patients sampled in this study were generally younger (65.4%
&lt; 50 yrs) and less critically ill/all discharged. After two
consecutive negative PCR tests, patients were discharged.

Clinical Results at Admission

-   Median interval disease onset to admission (5 days, IQR: 3-7)

-   Most common symptoms included fever, fatigue, dry cough, and
    expectoration.

-   Fifteen patients had reduced lymphocyte counts (28.8%).

-   No change in WBC or Neutrophil counts.

-   **The majority of patients had increased CRP at admission (63.5%).**

-   **LDH, and HSST TNT were significantly increased at admission.**

-   Fibrinogen was trending high though not significant.

-   No major changes in liver function observed.

-   **Radiographic signs via chest CT showed increased involvement in
    lower lobes: right lower lobe (47 cases, 90.4%), left lower lobe (37
    cases, 71.2%).**

-   **GGO (90.4%), interlobular septal thickening (42.3%), vascular
    enlargement (42.3%)**, and reticulation (11.5%) were most commonly
    observed.

Change in Clinical Results following Negative Test

-   **CRP levels decreased after negative PCR.**

-   **Lymphocyte counts (\#/L) increased significantly (CD3+, CD3+/8+
    and CD3+/4+).**

-   No significant change to CD4/8 ratio.

-   LDH, HSST TNT, and Fibronegin remained high throughout, though range
    observed decreased over time.

-   **Consolidation and mixed GGO observed in longitudinal CT imaging.**

-   **Patients showed different extents of inflammatory exudation in
    lungs, with overall tendency for improvement (except 2/7 patients
    that were readmitted after discharge with re-positive test).**

Patients Readmitted with PCR+ test

-   **Seven patients repeated positive RT-PCR test and were readmitted
    to the hospital (9 to 17 day after initial discharge).**

-   Improvement during readmission in 4 patients and observation of
    segmental progression CT in 2 patients (2/18 or 11.1% - re-positive
    9 and 10 days post-discharge).

-   Two patients showed new GGO, while others improved greatly.

-   **Follow up CT necessary to monitor improvement during recovery and
    patients with lesion progression should be given more attention.**

-   **Dynamic CT in addition to negative test essential in clinical
    diagnosis due to nasal swab PCR sampling bias (false-negatives).**

-   **Increase in CRP occurred in 2 readmitted patients (and decr. in
    lymphocytes in one patient), but was not correlated with new lesions
    or disease progression vs. improvement (very low N).**

#### Significance

Study tracked key clinical features associated with
disease progression, recovery, and determinants of clinical
diagnosis/management of COVID-19 patients.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken by Natalie Vaninov as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
