**Title**: Virus-host interactome and proteomic survey of PMBCs from
COVID-19 patients reveal potential virulence factors influencing
SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis

**Keywords**: PBMC – virulence factors – interaction network – nsp9 –
nsp10 – NKRF

**Main findings**:

The authors identified **intra-viral protein-protein interactions**
(PPI) with two different approaches: genome wide yeast-two hybrid (Y2H)
and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP). A total of 58 distinct PPI were
characterized. A screen of **viral-host PPI** was also established by
overexpressing all the SARS-CoV-2 genes with a Flag epitope into HEK293
cells and purifying each protein complex. Interacting host proteins were
then identified by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry.
251 cellular proteins were identified, such as subunits of ATPase, 40S
ribosomal proteins, T complex proteins and proteasome related proteins,
for a total of 631 viral-host PPI. Several interactions suggesting
protein-mediated modulation of the immune response were identified,
highlighting the multiple ways SARS-CoV-2 might reprogram infected
cells.

Subsequently, the authors compared global proteome profiles of PBMCs
from healthy donors (n=6) with PBMC from COVID-19 patients with mild
(n=22) or severe (n=13) symptoms. 220 proteins were found to be
differentially expressed between *healthy donors and mild COVID-19
patients*, and a pathway analysis showed **a general activation of the
innate immune response.** 553 proteins were differentially expressed
between the PBMC of *mild and severe COVID-19 patients*, most of them
(95%) being downregulated in severe patients*.* Functional pathway
analysis indicated a defect of T cell activation and function in severe
COVID-19. There was also evidence suggesting reduced antibody secretion
by B cells. Together, these results suggest a **functional decline of
adaptive immunity**. A FACS analysis of PBMC from severe patients
indicated higher levels of IL6 and IL8 but not IL17 compared to mild
patients.

Finally, the authors focused on NKRF, an endogenous repressor of IL8/IL6
synthesis that was previously identified as interacting with SARS-Cov-2
nsp9,10,12,13 and 15. Individually expressed nsp9 and nsp10 (but not
nsp12, nsp13, nsp15) induced both IL6 and IL8 in lung epithelial A459
cells, indicating that nsp9 and nsp10 may be directly involved in the
induction of these pro-inflammatory cytokines. The authors finally argue
that nsp9 and nsp10 represent potential drug targets to prevent
over-production of IL6 and IL8 in infected cells, and reducing the
over-activation of neutrophils.

**Limitations**:

First, the authors seem to have forgotten to include the extended data
in the manuscript, and their proteomic data does not seem to be publicly
available for the moment, which limits greatly our analysis of their
results.

While this work provides important data on host and viral PPI, only 19
interactions were identified by Y2H system but 52 with co-IP. The
authors do not comment about what could lead to such differences between
the two techniques and they don’t specify whether they detected the same
interactions using the two techniques.

Moreover, the PBMC protein quantification was performed comparing bulk
PBMC. Consequently, protein differences likely reflect differences in
cell populations rather than cell-intrinsic differences in protein
expression. While this analysis is still interesting, a similar
experiment performed on pre-sorted specific cell populations would allow
measuring proteome dynamics at a higher resolution.

Finally, the authors did not discussed their results in regards to
another SARS-CoV-2 interactome of host-viral PPI that had been published
previously^1^. This study reported 332 host-virus PPI, but no
interaction of viral proteins with NKRF was found. Some interactions
were found in both studies (eg. N and G3BP1, Orf6 and RAE1). However,
the time point used to lyse the cells were different (40h previously vs
72h here), which could explain some of the differences.

**Relevance**:

The identification of many interactions between intra-viral and
host-virus PPI provides an overview of host protein and pathways that
are modulated by SARS-CoV-2, which can lead to the identification of
potential targets for drug development.

In the model proposed by the authors, nsp9 and nsp10 from SARS-Cov-2
induce an over-expression of IL6 and IL8 by lung epithelial cells, which
recruits neutrophils and could lead to an excess in lung infiltration.
Nsp9 has been shown to be essential for viral replication for
SARS-Cov-1^2^, and shares a 97% homology with nsp9 from SARS-Cov-2^3^.
Further, nsp9 crystal structure was recently solved^3^, which can help
to develop drug inhibitors if this protein is further confirmed as being
important for the virulence of SARS-Cov-2.

1\. Gordon DE, Jang GM, Bouhaddou M, et al. A SARS-CoV-2-Human
Protein-Protein Interaction Map Reveals Drug Targets and Potential
Drug-Repurposing. *bioRxiv*. March 2020:2020.03.22.002386.
doi:10.1101/2020.03.22.002386

2\. Miknis ZJ, Donaldson EF, Umland TC, Rimmer RA, Baric RS, Schultz LW.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus nsp9 dimerization is
essential for efficient viral growth. *J Virol*. 2009;83(7):3007-3018.
doi:10.1128/JVI.01505-08

3\. Littler DR, Gully BS, Colson RN, Rossjohn J. *Crystal Structure of
the SARS-CoV-2 Non-Structural Protein 9, Nsp9*. Molecular Biology; 2020.
doi:10.1101/2020.03.28.013920
