**ACE2 Expression is Increased in the Lungs of Patients with
Comorbidities Associated with Severe COVID-19**

<https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.21.20040261>

*Immunology keywords*:

CoVID-19, 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV-2, lung, comorbidities, histone,
epigenetics,

*Summary of Findings*:

-   Transcriptomic analysis using systems-level meta-analysis and
    network analysis of existing literature to determine ACE2 regulation
    in patients who have frequent COVID-19 comorbidities \[eg-
    cardiovascular diseases, familial pulmonary hypertension, cancer\].

-   Enrichment analyses indicated pathways associated with inflammation,
    metabolism, macrophage autophagy, and ER stress.

-   ACE2 higher in adenocarcinoma compared to adjacent normal lung; ACE2
    higher in COPD patients compared to normal.

-   Co-expression analysis identified genes important to viral entry
    such as RAB1A, ADAM10, HMGBs, and TLR3 to be associated with ACE2 in
    diseased lungs.

-   ACE2 expression could be potentially regulated by enzymes that
    modify histones, including HAT1, HDAC2, and KDM5B.

*Limitations*:

-   Not actual CoVID-19 patients with co-morbidities, so interpretations
    in this study need to be confirmed by analyzing upcoming
    transcriptomics from CoVID-19 patients having co-morbidity metadata.

-   As mentioned by authors, study does not look at diabetes and
    autoimmunity as risk factors in CoVID-19 patients due to lack of
    data; would be useful to extend such analyses to those datasets when
    available.

-   Co-expression analysis is perfunctory and needs
    validation-experiments especially in CoVID-19 lung samples to mean
    anything.

-   Epigenomic analyses are intriguing but incomplete, as existence of
    histone marks does not necessarily mean occupancy. Would be
    pertinent to check cell-line data (CCLE) or actual CoVID-19 patient
    samples to confirm ACE2 epigenetic control.

*Importance/Relevance:*

-   Study implys vulnerable populations have ACE2 upregulation that
    could promote CoVID-19 severity. Shows important data-mining
    strategy to find gene-networks associated with ACE2 upregulation in
    co-morbid patients.

-   Several of the genes co-upregulated with ACE2 in diseased lung might
    play an important role in CoVID-19 and can be preliminary targets
    for therapeutics

-   If in silico findings hold true, epigenetic control of ACE2
    expression could be a new target for CoVID-19 therapy with
    strategies such as KDM5 demethylases.

*Review by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
