**Functional alteration of innate T cells in critically ill Covid-19
patients**

Jouan Y et al., medRxic 2020.05.03.20089300; doi:
https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.05.03.20089300

***Keywords***

-   Innate T cells (MAIT, iNT, γδ T cells)

-   Critically ill COVID-19 patients

-   SARS-CoV-2

***Main findings***

Innate T cells are a heterogeneous group of immune cells, including
mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT), NKT cells (NKT) and γδ T
cells, which differ from conventional T cells based on their unique
features considered characteristic of both the innate and adaptive
immune system. In this preprint, Jouan et al. aimed to address the
potential contribution of innate T cells to COVID-19 lung
immunopathology. SARS-CoV-2 PCR-positive ICU patients, diagnosed with
severe COVID-19 according to clinical symptoms, were enrolled in a
prospective study on average within 10 days of disease onset, and were
immunologically followed up for two weeks. Of 30 patients, 24 presented
with ARDS with the need for invasive mechanical ventilation either at
the time of ICU admission (n=20) or later on (n=4); to maintain
sufficient systemic oxygenation, one patient further required
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), whereas another patient
succumbed to disease two days post study inclusion. By the end of the
observation period, 15 individuals could be discharged from ICU, while
9/14 ICU patients remained on invasive mechanical ventilation. Similar
to several recent reports, the authors observed COVID-19-associated mild
to severe lymphopenia, which correlated with disease severity, as well
as concomitantly higher neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratios when compared to
age- and sex-matched healthy controls (n=20). Likewise, albeit
relatively low overall, plasma levels of the proinflammatory cytokines
IL-1β, IL-6, IL-1Rα and IFN-α2, a marker of the antiviral type I IFN
response, were found to be higher in COVID-19 patients *vs*. healthy
individuals (n=10). Of particular note, these cytokines were further
increased in endotracheal aspirate (ETA) supernatants relative to plasma
samples obtained from the same patients (n=20), suggesting locally
enhanced airway inflammation at the time of ICU admission. Moreover,
analyzing relative frequencies of circulating innate T cells in COVID-19
ICU patients (n=30) *vs*. age-/sex-matched healthy controls (n=20), the
authors report a profound decrease in MAIT (ca. 6-fold; identified by
5-OP-RU loaded MR1 tetramer *vs*. unloaded control tetramer) as well as
in iNKT cells (ca. 7 fold; identified by PBS-57 glycolipid-loaded CD1d
tetramer *vs*. unloaded control tetramer), while γδ T cell frequencies
remained largely stable (with the exception of a slight decrease in the
Vδ^2^ subset as well as a likely increase in the Vδ^3^ subset).
Interestingly, both MAIT and γδ T cell were detected in early ETA
samples of 12/21 ICU patients on invasive mechanical ventilation,
whereas iNKT cells were seemingly absent. Of importance, relative MAIT
but not γδ T numbers were increased in ETA specimens when compared to
plasma samples obtained from the same donors, suggesting enhanced airway
recruitment in contrast to potential extravasation processes as a result
of inflammation-induced capillary leakage. Accordingly, the presence of
innate T cells was restricted to ETA samples containing high levels of
chemo-attractive CXCL10 and CXCL12. Moreover, very basic phenotypic
analysis of blood-circulating innate T cells by flow cytometry revealed
increased activation based on enhanced expression of CD69 and PD-1 in
COVID-19 *vs*. healthy controls, as well as a potential trend towards
exhaustion based on continuous PD-1 expression observed after repeated
sampling. Enhanced levels of CD69 and PD-1 were further associated with
high levels of plasma Il-18, which has been previously linked to innate
T cell activation in viral infections
(https://www.jimmunol.org/content/194/8/3890). In line with the above
observations, innate T cell-expressed activation markers were found to
be higher at the presumable site of inflammation as compared to
peripheral circulation. Additionally, functional analysis of circulating
MAIT, iNKT, and γδ T cell in COVID-19 *vs*. healthy controls showed
substantially reduced IFNγ along with slightly increased production of
IL-17a following stimulation with PMA/Ionomycin, corroborating a
potential tendency of peripheral cellular exhaustion. Conversely, both
IFNγ and IL-17a were increased in ETA over plasma samples in COVID-19
ICU patients and levels of both cytokines were equally higher in those
ETA specimen containing innate T cells suggesting that these cells
contribute to local airway proinflammatory cytokine production. Most
importantly, while multiple sampling revealed a further decrease of
CD69+ activated circulatory MAIT, iNKT, and γδ T in COVID-19 over time,
the authors observed that higher frequencies of activated circulatory
MAIT and iNKT cells on day 7 correlated moderately with increased
PaO~2~/FiO~2~ ratios, indicative of preserved lung oxygenation, thus
suggesting that activation of innate T cells in early COVID-19 may be
used as a predictor of disease severity.

***Limitations***

*Technical/biological*

In addition to the relatively small study size, it remains somewhat
unclear how many ICU patients were included in some experiments
pertaining to ETA sample collection. Furthermore, a more stringent
clinical characterization of enrolled patients (in addition to basic
information presented in table 1) would add further impact to the
observations made here regarding the potential role of innate T cells in
critical COVID-19 as well as regarding any further association with ARDS
severity, death or clinical course in general. To adequately address
some of these questions, larger studies including patients across all
clinical stages as well as early-onset and longitudinal sampling will be
needed. Similarly, it would be of great interest to further examine
kinetics of both potential innate T cell migration to inflamed airways
and general function by means of repeated sampling. Additionally,
extended flow-cytometric phenotyping of both circulatory and airway
innate T cells will be needed to further characterize these populations
beyond their basic activation status. In this context, general gating
strategies should be included in the supplemental.

*General*

Throughout the manuscript, some references pertaining to specific
figures or their content are incorrect. For example, supplementary
figure 1A shows a COVID-19 lung CT scan, but no healthy control as
suggested by the complementary figure legend. Data on plasma and ETA
IL-1Rα levels are displayed in figure 1 E & F, not in supplementary
figure 1B as stated in the manuscript. Supplementary figure 1B does not
exist. Similarly, some of the literature references seem to have been
mixed up (cf. reference 16 on the role of MAIT cells in diabetes and
obesity *vs*. type I IFN response in manuscript; reference 23 is
missing).

***Significance***

Innate T cells have been previously shown to mediate potent antiviral
immune mechanisms in both mouse and human studies (reviewed in
[*https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s11684-017-0606-8.pdf*](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s11684-017-0606-8.pdf)).
Observations made here generally corroborate limited data reported in
two recent preprints
([*https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.08.029769v1*](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.08.029769v1);
[*https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.05.20046433v1.full.pdf*](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.05.20046433v1.full.pdf))
on activation status and frequencies of γδ T in COVID-19 patients.
Notably, this preprint by Jouan et al. is first to assess basic
functional changes of circulatory innate T cells (including MAIT, iNKT
and γδ T subsets) as well as frequencies and limited phenotypic analysis
of airway innate T cell in critical COVID-19. Further studies including
larger cohorts of patients of variable disease are now needed to
conclusively determine the role of innate T cells in COVID-19
immunopathology.

*This review was undertaken by Verena van der Heide as part of a project
by students, postdocs and faculty at the Precision Immunology Institute
of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.*
