### Mortality of COVID-19 is Associated with Cellular Immune Function Compared to Immune Function in Chinese Han Population

Zeng et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.08.20031229]

#### Keywords
- WBC
- peripheral blood
- CD4
- CD8 T cells

#### Main Findings

Retrospective study of the clinical characteristics of 752
patients infected with COVID-19 at Chinese PLA General Hospital, Peking
Union Medical College Hospital, and affiliated hospitals at Shanghai
University of medicine & Health Sciences. This study is the first one
that compares PB from healthy controls from the same regions in Shanghai
and Beijing, and infected COVID-19 patients to standardize a reference
range of WBCs of people at high risk.

#### Limitations

Lower levels of leukocyte counts -B cells, CD4 and CD8 T
cells- correlated with mortality (WBCs are significantly lower in severe
or critical UCI patients vs mild ones). Based on 14,117 normal controls
in Chinese Han population (ranging in age from 18-86) it is recommended
that reference ranges of people at high risk of COVID-19 infection are
CD3+ lymphocytes below 900 cells/mm3, CD4+ lymphocytes below 500
cells/mm3, and CD8+ lymphocytes below 300 cells/mm3. Importantly, this
study also reported that the levels of D-dimer, C-reactive protein and
IL-6 were elevated in COVID-19 pts., indicating clot formation, severe
inflammation and cytokine storm.

#### Significance

This study sets a threshold to identify patients at risk
by analyzing their levels of leukocytes, which is an easy and fast
approach to stratify individuals that require hospitalization. Although
the study is limited (only counts of WBC are analyzed and not its
profile) the data is solid and statistically robust to correlate levels
of lymphopenia with mortality.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
