**Hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin as a treatment of COVID-19:
results of an open label non-randomized clinical trial**

**doi**: <https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.16.20037135>

*Key words*: hydroxychloroquine, clearance, viral load, clinical trial

*Summary*: This study was a single-arm, open label clinical trial with
600 mg hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in the treatment arm (n = 20). Patients
who refused participation or patients from another center not treated
with HCQ were included as negative controls (n = 16). Among the patients
in the treatment arm, 6 received concomitant azithromycin to prevent
superimposed bacterial infection. The primary endpoint was respiratory
viral loads on day 6 post enrollment, measured by nasopharyngeal swab
followed by real-time reverse transcription-PCR.

HCQ alone was able to significantly reduce viral loads by day 6 (n =
8/14, 57.1% complete clearance, p &lt; 0.001); azithromycin appears to
be synergistic with HCQ, as 6/6 patients receiving combined treatment
had complete viral clearance (p &lt; 0.001).

*Importance*: Chloroquine is thought to inhibit viral infection,
including SARS-Cov-2, by increasing pH within endosomes and lysosomes,
altering the biochemical conditions required for viral fusion^1,2^.
However, chloroquine also has immuno-modulatory effects that I think may
play a role. Chloroquine has been shown to increase CTLA-4 expression at
the cell surface by decreasing its degradation in the endo-lysosome
pathway; AP-1 traffics the cytoplasmic tail of CTLA-4 to lysosomes, but
in conditions of increased pH, the protein machinery required for
degradation is less functional^3^. As such, more CTLA-4 remains in
endosomes and is trafficked back to the cell surface. It is possible
that this may also contribute to patient recovery via reduction of
cytokine storm, in addition to the direct anti-viral effects of HCQ.

*Limitations*: Despite what is outlined above, this study has a number
of limitations that must be considered. First, there were originally n =
26 patients in the treatment arm, with 6 lost to follow up for the
following reasons: 3 transferred to ICU, 1 discharge, 1
self-discontinued treatment d/t side effects, and 1 patient expired.
Total length of clinical follow up was 14 days, but the data beyond day
6 post-inclusion are not shown.

Strikingly, in supplementary table 1, results of the real-time RT-PCR
are listed for the control and treatment arms from D0 – D6. However, the
data are not reported in a standard way, with a mix of broadly positive
or negative result delineation with Ct (cycle threshold) values, the
standard output of real time PCR. It is impossible to compare what is
defined as a positive value between the patients in the control and
treatment arms without a standardized threshold for a positive test.
Further, the starting viral loads reported at D0 in the groups receiving
HCQ or HCQ + azithromycin were significantly different (ct of 25.3 vs
26.8 respectively), which could explain in part the differences observed
in the response to treatment between 2 groups. Finally, patients in the
control arm from outside the primary medical center in this study
(Marseille) did not actually have samples tested by PCR daily. Instead,
positive test results from every other day were extrapolated to mean
positive results on the day before and after testing as well (Table 2,
footnote ^a^).

Taken together, the results of this study suggest that HCQ represents a
promising treatment avenue for COVID-19 patients. However, the limited
size of the trial, and the way in which the results were reported does
not allow for other medical centers to extrapolate a positive or
negative result in the treatment of their own patients with HCQ +/-
azithromycin. Further larger randomized clinical trials will be required
to ascertain the efficacy of HCQ +/- azithromycin in the treatment of
COVID-19.

*References*

1\. Wang, M. *et al.* Remdesivir and chloroquine effectively inhibit the
recently emerged novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in vitro. *Cell Research*
vol. 30 269–271 (2020).

2\. Thomé, R., Lopes, S. C. P., Costa, F. T. M. & Verinaud, L.
Chloroquine: Modes of action of an undervalued drug. *Immunol. Lett.*
**153**, 50–57 (2013).

3\. Lo, B. *et al.* Patients with LRBA deficiency show CTLA4 loss and
immune dysregulation responsive to abatacept therapy. *Science (80-. ).*
**349**, 436–440 (2015).
