DOI: 10.1101/2020.04.15.20065623

Title: Neutralizing Antibodies Responses to SARS-CoV-2 in COVID-19
Inpatients and Convalescent Patients

Keywords: Neutralizing Antibodies; Convalescent plasma

Summary: Based on peripheral blood samples from 117 COVID-19 inpatients
and convalescent patients, the authors demonstrate that all patients
sampled became seropositive with neutralizing antibodies within 20 days
since onset of symptoms and stayed seropositive until day 41-53.
Seropositivity of neutralizing antibodies was defined as a geometric
mean titer (GMT) of 1:4 higher and the titer was calculated using a
modified *in vitro* cytopathogenic assay where the dilution number of
50% protective condition from cytopathic effect of the virus represented
the titer. The GMT of neutralizing antibodies (average: 1:271.2) was the
highest at 31-40 days since onset and multivariate Generalized
Estimating Equations (GEE) model controlling for clinical variables
(i.e. gender, age, clinical severity, etc.) showed that antibody titer
at 31-40 days was significantly higher than 10-20 days past onset. In
addition, their multivariate GEE analysis showed that age- and clinical
severity-dependent rise in antibody titers with the youngest (age 16-30)
and patients with mild or asymptomatic conditions having a lower
antibody tier than its elderly and moderately-sick counterparts.

Limitations: Several shortcomings limit the impact of this study. While
it has been the intent of the authors to sample PBMCs from patients at
various time points in order to establish a robust profile of antibody
response against SARS-CoV2, in reality, sampling has been limited and
inconsistent across different time points. For instance, PBMCs of only
12 out of 117 patients have been collected three or more times and it is
not clear from the data whether samples from patients whose blood has
been collected only once (n = 37) are evenly distributed across the time
frames under analysis. Furthermore, the authors have tried to show
differences in kinetics of antibody response between patients with mild
and moderate conditions by sampling their blood at four different time
points. However, not only do two of eight patients sampled in this study
have only two data points, but also the authors have found that the
antibody response varies considerably across individuals—further
underscoring the need to have PBMCs sampled from each patient at
multiple time points and normalizing their response before comparing the
titers across individuals. In addition, due to the fact that patients
were enrolled using convenient sampling instead of random sampling
methods, it’s evident that the authors could not control for disease
severity as they only had four patients in severe condition. Beyond the
sampling issues, the modified cytopathic assay used to calculate the
neutralizing antibody titers may be less sensitive and specific than
ELISA-based assays that use purified antigens from the virus.

Significance of the finding: Limited. While it is informative to have
descriptive studies like this one showing the dynamics of the antibody
response against COVID-19, the failure of the study to collect samples
in controlled manner prevents the reader from using the data to answer
key questions regarding the humoral immune response against COVID-19: do
differences in clinical severity manifest in different kinetics of
antibody response? When controlled for age, is higher antibody titer
predictive of their clinical severity and prognosis? Future studies may
address those questions with more controlled experimental setup.

*Review by Chang Moon as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the\
Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine, Mount Sinai.*
