#### Title: **On the interactions of the receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 spike proteins with monoclonal antibodies and the receptor ACE2**

Correa Giron et al., *bioRxiv* \[@doi: []{#_Hlk37590784
.anchor}10.1101/2020.04.05.026377\]

#### Keywords

-   Monoclonal antibodies

-   Binding affinities

-   RBD/ACE2 interaction

#### Main Findings

This study combined a theoretical approach, with structural and
computational methods to identify antibody epitopes on the ACE2
(angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) receptor-binding-domains of the Spike
(S) proteins of SARS CoV1 and SARS CoV2. The authors used constant-pH
Monte Carlo (MC) simulations and the PROCEEDpKa method, to determine
binding affinities of four SARS-Cov monoclonal antibody fragments
(CR3022, 80R, m39, F26G29**)** to SARS-Cov2, as well as the titratable
amino acids involved in the interactions. They also compared antibody
binding affinities to the binding affinity of S RBD of SARS-Cov1 and 2
to the ACE2 receptor to ensure that antibody binding affinities were
higher compared to those of S RBD/ACE2. They identified CR3022 as the Ab
having the highest affinity with SARS-Cov2 RBD. Based on their
simulations they were able to suggest some 3 amino acid modifications on
CR3022, to enhance its binding affinity to SARS-Cov2 RBD. The
computational analysis of interactions between SARS-CoV-1 S RBD proteins
and the S RBD-specific neutralizing mAbs (80R, F26G19, m396, CR3022)
recapitulated previous experimental results suggesting that the approach
was valid. The only mAb with measured affinity for the SARS-CoV-2 S RBD
protein by BLI assay was CR3020, which also exhibited the highest
theoretical binding affinity determined in the present study.

#### Limitations

Simulations were performed on S RBD proteins alone. However, given that
the S protein is trimeric, structure modifications and/or conformational
changes in the S protein trimer could alter antibody binding affinity.
In addition, while CR3022 has been shown to bind S RBD, it did not
neutralize SARS-Cov2 in vitro. The CR3022 modifications suggested by the
authors could enhance the binding affinitys and the neutralizing
potential of CR3022, but this is currently hypothetical and remains to
be tested.

#### Significance

These results are in agreement with previous experimental studies where
CR3022 was shown to bind SARS-Cov2 RBD (10.1101:2020.01.28.923011,
10.1126/science.abb7269) and confirm the validity of the approach. A
human monoclonal antibody against SARS-Cov2 RBD could be used as
therapeutics to treat patients with severe COVID-19, by inhibiting
ACE2/RBD interaction.

#### Credit

*Reviewed by Emma Risson as part of a project by students, postdocs and
faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*

Edited by K Alexandropoulos

*.*
