**Title:** Meplazumab treats COVID-19 pneumonia: an open-labelled,
concurrent controlled add-on clinical trial

**Keywords:** Meplazumab, CD147, humanized antibody, clinical trial

**Main findings:** This work is based on previous work by the same group
that demonstrated that SARS-CoV-2can also enter host cells via CD147
(also called Basigin, part of the immunoglobulin superfamily, is
expressed by many cell types) consistent with their previous work with
SARS-CoV-1. ^1^ A prospective clinical trial was conducted with 17
patients receiving Meplazumab, a humanized anti-CD147 antibody, in
addition to all other treatments. 11 patients were included as a control
group (non-randomized).

They observed a faster overall improvement rate in the Meplazumab group
(e.g. at day 14 47% vs 17% improvement rate) compared to the control
patients. Also, virological clearance was more rapid with median of 3
days in the Meplazumab group vs 13 days in control group. In laboratory
values, a faster normalization of lymphocyte counts in the Meplazumab
group was observed, but no clear difference was observed for CRP levels.

**Limitations**: While the results from the study are encouraging, this
study was non-randomized, open-label and on a small number of patients,
all from the same hospital. It offers evidence to perform a larger scale
study. Selection bias as well as differences between treatment groups
(e.g. age 51yo vs 64yo) may have contributed to results. The authors
mention that there was no toxic effect to Meplazumab injection but more
patient and longer-term studies are necessary to assess this.

**Significance**: These results seem promising as for now there are
limited treatments for Covid-19 patients, but a larger cohort of patient
is needed. CD147 has already been described to facilitate HIV ^2^,
measles virus ^3^, and malaria ^4^ entry into host cells. This group was
the first to describe the CD147-spike route of SARS-Cov-2 entry in host
cells ^1(p147)^. Indeed, they had previously shown in 2005 that SARS-Cov
could enter host cells via this transmembrane protein ^5)^. Further
biological understanding of how SARS-CoV-2 can enter host cells and how
this integrates with ACE2R route of entry is needed. Also, the specific
cellular targets of the anti-CD147 antibody need to be assessed, as this
protein can be expressed by many cell types and has been shown to
involved in leukocytes aggregation ^6^. Lastly, Meplazumab is not a
commercially-available drug and requires significant health resources to
generate and administer which might prevent rapid development and use.

1\. Wang K, Chen W, Zhou Y-S, et al. *SARS-CoV-2 Invades Host Cells via a
Novel Route: CD147-Spike Protein*. Microbiology; 2020.
doi:10.1101/2020.03.14.988345

2\. Pushkarsky T, Zybarth G, Dubrovsky L, et al. CD147 facilitates HIV-1
infection by interacting with virus-associated cyclophilin A. *Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA*. 2001;98(11):6360-6365. doi:10.1073/pnas.111583198

3\. Watanabe A, Yoneda M, Ikeda F, Terao-Muto Y, Sato H, Kai C.
CD147/EMMPRIN acts as a functional entry receptor for measles virus on
epithelial cells. *J Virol*. 2010;84(9):4183-4193.
doi:10.1128/JVI.02168-09

4\. Crosnier C, Bustamante LY, Bartholdson SJ, et al. BASIGIN is a
receptor essential for erythrocyte invasion by Plasmodium falciparum.
*Nature*. 2011;480(7378):534-537. doi:10.1038/nature10606

5\. Chen Z, Mi L, Xu J, et al. Function of HAb18G/CD147 in Invasion of
Host Cells by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus. *J Infect
Dis*. 2005;191(5):755-760. doi:10.1086/427811

6\. Yee C, Main NM, Terry A, et al. CD147 mediates intrahepatic leukocyte
aggregation and determines the extent of liver injury. *PLOS ONE*.
2019;14(7):e0215557. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0215557
