### Early phases of COVID-19 are characterized by a reduction of lymphocyte populations and the presence of atypical monocytes 

Lombardi A et al. *medRxiv* \[@doi: 10.1101/2020.05.01.20087080\]

#### Keywords

-   COVID-19

-   Lymphocytes

-   Monocytes

-   PBMC

-   inflammation

#### Main Findings

-   Study evaluated PBMCs of 63 italian patients with COVID-19 early
    after diagnosis (\~5 days post-symptom start) using flow cytometry,
    and determined any association of inflammatory biomarkers with
    28-days mortality.

-   Observed reduction in circulating lymphocytes (CTL, NK and NKT) and
    phenotypic changes in CD4+ T cells towards Th2 polarization,
    compared to reference intervals. Serum IL-6 levels not associated
    with monocyte counts, but correlated with Th2-polarized CD4+ T cell
    prevalence.

-   Detected enrichment of high-scatter atypical monocytes (in 11/14
    subgrouped patients) with low CD14 and low HLA-DR MFI, but
    classical/non-classical monocytes abundance within normal reference
    range.

-   Lymphopenia, but also activation of T lymphocytes (defined as
    CD38+HLA-DR+ CTLs) reported to correlate with death within 28 days
    (more severe progression).

#### Limitations

-   All the analysis is using peripheral blood, which provides
    superficial global immune context but might not necessarily inform
    local inflammation in the alveoli or other organs. Concordant
    studies in BAL or rapid-autopsy tissue would be helpful

-   Activation of lymphocytes defined by CD38 and HLA-DR would need to
    be assayed functionally, potentially using IFN-g or Gzm-B ELISpot.

-   There is no breakdown of inflammatory markers across 28-day patient
    survival stratification in Table 3. Additionally, there is no
    correlation analysis shown for IL-6 levels (or other biomarkers)
    with the density of atypical monocytes. Such a multi-variate
    correlation study could tease out inflammatory biomarkers useful for
    prioritizing care on the hospital frontline.

#### Significance

-   Provides on-the-ground clinical report of immunological
    characteristics from Milanese patients (despite being single-center
    small cohort of patients).

-   Results are in line with confirmed lympho-dysfunction observed in
    COVID-19 patients by multiple groups, and also support observations
    of atypical HLA-DR-low monocytes in severe disease
    (Giamarellos-Bourboulis et al. 2020).

-   Lymphocytopenia linked strongly to 28-day mortality stratification,
    in addition to standard clinical variates such as age, P/F ratio,
    LDH and CRP/Ferritin levels. Whether lymphocytopenia and associated
    innate-immune dysfunction is causal to adverse outcome is unclear,
    and will hopefully be revealed by prospective longitudinal clinical
    studies and potentially animal models.

*Reviewed by Samarth Hegde as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
