**Title**: Fatal toxicity of chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine with
metformin in mice

**Summary**: Chloroquine (CQ) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been
presented as potential therapeutic strategies for acute respiratory
syndrome, a serious complication sometimes observed in COVID-19
patients. The drug was rapidly pushed to clinical testing and approved
within weeks as a recommended COVID-19 treatment by the National Health
Commission of the People's Republic of China\[1\]. However, CQ or HCQ,
sometimes used in combination with anti-diabetic drug metformin, may
have serious toxic side-effects that have not been appropriately
addressed.

The authors, who study metformin with CQ or HCQ as potential anti-cancer
drugs in mice, study their toxicity. They found that the combination was
lethal in at least 40% of nude mice, tumour-bearing or not. Similar
results were obtained in non-immunocompromised mice. They observed that
nude mice treated with HCQ+metformin presented an increased number of
autophagosomes in the heart, liver and kidneys. Lactate dehydrogenase
(LDH) and creatine kinase (CK) were also elevated in treatment groups
compared to control vehicle-treated mice.

**Critical analysis**: The authors of this article perform studies
exclusively in mice. They note that the lethal doses of CQ or HCQ are
similar to those in humans with allometric scaling. However, the
side-effects of the combinations observed in mice must yet be confirmed
in humans. The article acts as a word of caution for individuals and
physicians who have been taking and prescribing these drug combinations
prior to adequate clinical trials.

**Relevance to current epidemic**: The authors note that both CQ and HCQ
can lead to the development of hypoglycemia, cardiomyopathy and
retinopathy. The dose of 500mg twice per day of CQ recommended in China
can rapidly approach a dangerous dose in humans\[1\]. CQ poisoning has
already been reported in Nigeria and resulted in at least one death in
Arizona; the clinical relevance of treating COVID-19 patients with
CQ+metformin or HCQ+metformin is yet to be confirmed or rejected.

**References**:

1\. Wong et al. Caution and clarity required in the use of chloroquine
for COVID-19, *The Lancet,* April 02 2020
