**Title**: “Azithromycin and Ciprofloxacin have a chloroquine-like
effect on respiratory epithelial cells” Jens F. Poschet & al, Posted:
2020-03-31

**Key words**: Azithromycin (AZT) and ciprofloxacin (CPX),
hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), chloroquine (CQ), cystic fibrosis, lung
epithelial cells, pH, NFkB, IL-8, Furin, TGF-β

**Summary**: The study assesses the effect of azithromycin (AZT) and its
potential mechanism of action in cystic fibrosis (CF) epithelial cells
beyond anti-bacterial activity and through changes in the pH of
intracellular organelles of lung epithelial cells. The authors also
discuss potential implications for COVID-19 therapy, as they compare AZT
to hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and chloroquine (CQ), and further suggest
the use of ciprofloxacin (CPX) based on acido-tropic lipophilic weak
base properties of these drugs. The study examines AZT’s mechanism of
action in vitro on cystic fibrosis respiratory epithelial cells and
find:

-   AZT elicits pH normalization in trans-Golgi network (TGN) and
    endosomes from their subtly increased acidification in CF epithelial
    cells.

-   AZT reduces inflammatory mediators in CF lung epithelial cells with
    or without bacterial products challenge: basal NFκB activation was
    reduced by 50% and by 40% in bacterial challenge; basal IL-8
    secretion was reduced by almost 70 %, and by approximatively 33%
    after bacterial product challenge.

-   AZT corrects Furin activity in CF cells’ intracellular organelles
    and leads to a decrease in abundance of the profibrotic mediator
    TGF-beta.

**Limitations**:

This study is conducted in-vitro on respiratory epithelial cells
affected by cystic fibrosis, and even though normal human epithelial
cells were included in some experiments, they were not treated with AZT
or CPX. The AZT results are derived from only 3 independent in-vitro
experiments. The number of experiments supporting the CPX is not clear,
nor why different cell types were used in AZT and CPX experiments. Very
little is shown, except for TGN pH normalization, to suggest replication
of AZT’s results with CPX.

The biological mechanism linking pH increase in the TGN and the endosome
and the decrease in pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic effect in CF
epithelial cell would need to be further explored.

The hypothesis of similar effect in pH shift in normal cells or in a
SARS-CoV2 affected cells would need to be substantiated by experimental
data.

**Findings implications**: As we are desperately looking for a COVID-19
therapy, an hic and nunc approach identifying FDA-approved drugs with
known safety profiles, is appealing. The preliminary in-vitro findings
of this study warrant further in-vivo studies regarding these drugs.

Moreover, the biological mechanism underscored in this study could
provide insights in the link between SARS-Cov2 viral infection and
hyperinflammatory reaction as well as anti-viral effects. In particular,
the Furin activity reduction by AZT may result in hindering SARS-CoV2
entry, as its Spike protein possess a novel Furin cleavage site.

*Review by Jaime Mateus-Tique as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
