### Correlation between universal BCG vaccination policy and reduced morbidity and mortality for COVID-19: an epidemiological study

Miller et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.24.20042937]

#### Keywords

- BCG vaccine
- epidemiology
- vaccination policy

#### Main Findings

The authors compared middle and high income countries that never had a
universal BCG vaccination policy (Italy, Lebanon, Nederland, Belgium)
and countries with a current policy (low income countries were excluded
from the analysis as their number of cases and deaths might be
underreported for the moment). **Countries that never implement BCG
vaccination have a higher mortality rate than countries which have a BCG
vaccination policy** (16.38 deaths per million people vs 0.78). Next,
**the authors show that an earlier start of vaccination correlates with
a lower number of deaths per million inhabitants**. They interpret this
as the vaccine protecting a larger fraction of elderly people, which are
usually more affected by COVID-19. Moreover, higher number of COVID-19
**cases** were presented in countries that never implemented a universal
BCG vaccination policy.

#### Limitations

While this study aims to test an intriguing hypothesis unfortunately,
the data is not sufficient at this time to accurately make any
determinations. Several caveats must be noted including: not all
countries are in the same stage of the pandemic, the number of
cases/deaths is still changing very rapidly in a lot of countries and
thus the association may only reflect exposure to the virus. This
analysis would need to be re-evaluated when all the countries are passed
the pandemic and more accurate numbers are available. Additionally, very
few middle and high-income countries ever implemented universal BCG
vaccination, which can be a source of bias (5 countries, vs 55 that have
a BCG vaccine policy). Effective screening and social isolation policies
also varied considerable across the countries tested and may reflect
another important confounder. The authors could consider analyzing the
Case Fatality Rate (CFR, % of patients with COVID-19 that die), to more
correct for exposure although testing availability will still bias this
result. Variability in mortality within countries or cities with
variable vaccination and similar exposure could also be appropriate
although confounders will still be present.

#### Significance

BCG vaccine is a live attenuated strain derived from *Mycobacterium
bovis* and used for a vaccine for tuberculosis (TB). This vaccine has
been proven to be efficient in preventing childhood meningitis TB, but
doesn’t prevent adult TB as efficiently. For this reason, several
countries are now only recommending this vaccine for at-risk population
only.

**This study shows that there is a correlation between BCG vaccination
policy and reduced mortality for Covid-19**. Indeed, BCG vaccine has
been shown to protect against several viruses and enhance innate
immunity [@doi:10.1016/j.cmi.2019.04.020], which could explain why it could protect against SARS-CoV-2
infection, but the exact mechanism is still unknown. **Moreover, the
efficiency of adult/older people vaccination and protection against
Covid-19 still needs to be assessed.** Regarding this, Australian
researchers are starting a clinical trial of BCG vaccine for healthcare
workers [@url:https://www.mcri.edu.au/BRACE], to assess if it can protect them against Covid-19.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
