**Title**: Potent neutralization of 2019 novel coronavirus by
recombinant ACE2-Ig

**Keywords**: ACE2, Ig-like protein, SARS-CoV neutralization

**Summary**:

Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 ACE2 is a negative regulator of the
renin-angiotensin system. In the lung tissues, ACE2 is expressed on lung
epithelial cells (AT2 cells) and has been identified as a receptor for
SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2\[1\]⁠.

Administration of recombinant human ACE2 has been shown to protect mice
from severe acute lung injury induced by acid aspiration or sepsis and
lethal avian influenza H5N1\[2,3\]⁠⁠.

Human recombinant ACE has already been shown in animal models and humans
to have a fast clearance rate with a half-life of only a few
hours\[4[]{#ADDIN_CSL_CITATION_%7B%22citationItems%2 .anchor}\]⁠,
thereby limiting its therapeutic potential.

To address this protein stability limitation, the authors generated a
fusion protein that links the extracellular domain of human ACE2 to the
Fc domain of human IgG1. This fusion protein was shown to have a
prolonged half-life and neutralize viruses pseudotyped with the S
glycoprotein of both of SARS-CoV and 2019-nCoV in vitro, thus providing
a potential therapeutic for COVID-19.

**Critical analysis**: ACE2-Ig fusion proteins are promising but their
ability to neutralize the virus and reduce viral load remains be tested
with intact Coronaviruses in vitro and in animals before being tested in
clinical trials.

**Implications for current epidemic**: If neutralizing capacity can be
validated with 2019-nCov viruses, this novel drug target provides a
promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of COVID-19 patients.
Nonetheless, the authors mention potential cardiovascular side-effects
stemming from the role of ACE2 in the renin-engiotensin system. These
will need to be examined prior to the initiation of a phase I clinical
trial.

**References**:

1\. Kuba K, Imai Y, Rao S, Jiang C, Penninger JM: **Lessons from SARS:
Control of acute lung failure by the SARS receptor ACE2**. *J Mol Med*
2006, **84**:814–820.

2\. Imai Y, Kuba K, Rao S, Huan Y, Guo F, Guan B, Yang P, Sarao R, Wada
T, Leong-Poi H, et al.: **Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 protects from
severe acute lung failure**. *Nature* 2005, **436**:112–116.

3\. Zou Z, Yan Y, Shu Y, Gao R, Sun Y, Li X, Ju X, Liang Z, Liu Q, Zhao
Y, et al.: **Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 protects from lethal avian
influenza A H5N1 infections**. *Nat Commun* 2014, **5**:3594.

4\. Haschke M, Schuster M, Poglitsch M, Loibner H, Salzberg M, Bruggisser
M, Penninger J, Krähenbühl S: **Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of
recombinant human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 in healthy human
subjects**. *Clin Pharmacokinet* 2013, **52**:783–792.
